<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Figurines in Old Saxe</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="figurines-in-old-saxe" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="patterns" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Patterns</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I walk down the garden paths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the daffodils</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are blowing, and the bright blue squills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I walk down the patterned garden-paths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my stiff, brocaded gown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my powdered hair and jewelled fan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too am a rare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pattern. As I wander down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The garden paths.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My dress is richly figured,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the train</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes a pink and silver stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the gravel, and the thrift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the borders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just a plate of current fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned shoes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a softness anywhere about me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only whalebone and brocade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I sink on a seat in the shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a lime tree. For my passion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wars against the stiff brocade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The daffodils and squills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flutter in the breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I weep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the lime-tree is in blossom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one small flower has dropped upon my bosom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the plashing of waterdrops</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the marble fountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comes down the garden-paths.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dripping never stops.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Underneath my stiffened gown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A basin in the midst of hedges grown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So thick, she cannot see her lover hiding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she guesses he is near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sliding of the water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seems the stroking of a dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hand upon her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the pink and silver crumpled up on the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I would be the pink and silver as I ran along the paths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he would stumble after,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bewildered by my laughter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should see the sun flashing from his sword-hilt and the buckles</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">on his shoes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would choose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lead him in a maze along the patterned paths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bright and laughing maze for my heavy-booted lover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he caught me in the shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the buttons of his waistcoat bruised my body as he clasped me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aching, melting, unafraid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the shadows of the leaves and the sundrops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the plopping of the waterdrops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All about us in the open afternoon⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am very like to swoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the weight of this brocade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the sun sifts through the shade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Underneath the fallen blossom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my bosom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is a letter I have hid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was brought to me this morning by a rider from the Duke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Madam, we regret to inform you that Lord Hartwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Died in action Thursday se’nnight.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I read it in the white, morning sunlight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The letters squirmed like snakes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Any answer, Madam,” said my footman.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No,” I told him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“See that the messenger takes some refreshment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, no answer.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I walked into the garden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and down the patterned paths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my stiff, correct brocade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blue and yellow flowers stood up proudly in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood upright too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held rigid to the pattern</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the stiffness of my gown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and down I walked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In a month he would have been my husband.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a month, here, underneath this lime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We would have broke the pattern;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He for me, and I for him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He as Colonel, I as Lady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this shady seat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had a whim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sunlight carried blessing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I answered, “It shall be as you have said.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now he is dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In Summer and in Winter I shall walk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The patterned garden-paths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my stiff, brocaded gown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The squills and daffodils</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will give place to pillared roses, and to asters, and to snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my gown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gorgeously arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boned and stayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the softness of my body will be guarded from embrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By each button, hook, and lace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the man who should loose me is dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting with the Duke in Flanders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a pattern called a war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Christ! What are patterns for?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pickthorn-manor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pickthorn Manor</h2>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>How fresh the Dartle’s little waves that day!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A steely silver, underlined with blue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And flashing where the round clouds, blown away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let drop the yellow sunshine to gleam through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And tip the edges of the waves with shifts</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And spots of whitest fire, hard like gems</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Cut from the midnight moon they were, and sharp</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As wind through leafless stems.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Lady Eunice walked between the drifts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of blooming cherry-trees, and watched the rifts</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of clouds drawn through the river’s azure warp.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Her little feet tapped softly down the path.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her soul was listless; even the morning breeze</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fluttering the trees and strewing a light swath</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of fallen petals on the grass, could please</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her not at all. She brushed a hair aside</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With a swift move, and a half-angry frown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She stopped to pull a daffodil or two,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And held them to her gown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To test the colours; put them at her side,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then at her breast, then loosened them and tried</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Some new arrangement, but it would not do.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A lady in a Manor-house, alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whose husband is in Flanders with the Duke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Marlborough and Prince Eugene, she’s grown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Too apathetic even to rebuke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her idleness. What is she on this Earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">No woman surely, since she neither can</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Be wed nor single, must not let her mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Build thoughts upon a man</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Except for hers. Indeed that were no dearth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were her Lord here, for well she knew his worth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And when she thought of him her eyes were kind.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Too lately wed to have forgot the wooing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Too unaccustomed as a bride to feel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Other than strange delight at her wife’s doing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even at the thought a gentle blush would steal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over her face, and then her lips would frame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Some little word of loving, and her eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Would brim and spill their tears, when all they saw</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Was the bright sun, slantwise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through burgeoning trees, and all the morning’s flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Burning and quivering round her. With quick shame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She shut her heart and bent before the law.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He was a soldier, she was proud of that.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">This was his house and she would keep it well.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His honour was in fighting, hers in what</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He’d left her here in charge of. Then a spell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of conscience sent her through the orchard spying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon the gardeners. Were their tools about?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Were any branches broken? Had the weeds</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Been duly taken out</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under the ‘spaliered pears, and were these lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nailed snug against the sunny bricks and drying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Their leaves and satisfying all their needs?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-6" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>She picked a stone up with a little pout,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Stones looked so ill in well-kept flower-borders.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where should she put it? All the paths about</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Were strewn with fair, red gravel by her orders.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No stone could mar their sifted smoothness. So</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She hurried to the river. At the edge</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She stood a moment charmed by the swift blue</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Beyond the river sedge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She watched it curdling, crinkling, and the snow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Purfled upon its wave-tops. Then, “Hullo,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">My Beauty, gently, or you’ll wriggle through.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-7" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The Lady Eunice caught a willow spray</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To save herself from tumbling in the shallows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which rippled to her feet. Then straight away</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She peered down stream among the budding sallows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A youth in leather breeches and a shirt</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of finest broidered lawn lay out upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">An overhanging bole and deftly swayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A well-hooked fish which shone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the pale lemon sunshine like a spurt</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of silver, bowed and damascened, and girt</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">With crimson spots and moons which waned and played.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-8" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The fish hung circled for a moment, ringed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bright; then flung itself out, a thin blade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of spotted lightning, and its tail was winged</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With chipped and sparkled sunshine. And the shade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Broke up and splintered into shafts of light</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Wheeling about the fish, who churned the air</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And made the fish-line hum, and bent the rod</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Almost to snapping. Care</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The young man took against the twigs, with slight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deft movements he kept fish and line in tight</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Obedience to his will with every prod.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-9" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He lay there, and the fish hung just beyond.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He seemed uncertain what more he should do.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He drew back, pulled the rod to correspond,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Tossed it and caught it; every time he threw,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He caught it nearer to the point. At last</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The fish was near enough to touch. He paused.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Eunice knew well the craft⁠—“What’s got the thing!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She cried. “What can have caused⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where is his net? The moment will be past.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fish will wriggle free.” She stopped aghast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">He turned and bowed. One arm was in a sling.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-10" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The broad, black ribbon she had thought his basket</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Must hang from, held instead a useless arm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I do not wonder, Madam, that you ask it.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He smiled, for she had spoke aloud. “The charm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of trout fishing is in my eyes enhanced</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When you must play your fish on land as well.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">“How will you take him?” Eunice asked. “In truth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I really cannot tell.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Twas stupid of me, but it simply chanced</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I never thought of that until he glanced</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Into the branches. ’Tis a bit uncouth.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-11" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He watched the fish against the blowing sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Writhing and glittering, pulling at the line.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“The hook is fast, I might just let him die,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He mused. “But that would jar against your fine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sense of true sportsmanship, I know it would,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Cried Eunice. “Let me do it.” Swift and light</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She ran towards him. “It is so long now</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Since I have felt a bite,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I lost all heart for everything.” She stood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Supple and strong, beside him, and her blood</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Tingled her lissom body to a glow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-12" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>She quickly seized the fish and with a stone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ended its flurry, then removed the hook,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Untied the fly with well-poised fingers. Done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She asked him where he kept his fishing-book.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He pointed to a coat flung on the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She searched the pockets, found a shagreen case,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Replaced the fly, noticed a golden stamp</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Filling the middle space.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two letters half rubbed out were there, and round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>About them gay rococo flowers wound</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And tossed a spray of roses to the clamp.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-13" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The Lady Eunice puzzled over these.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“G. D.” the young man gravely said. “My name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is Gervase Deane. Your servant, if you please.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“Oh, Sir, indeed I know you, for your fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For exploits in the field has reached my ears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I did not know you wounded and returned.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">“But just come back, Madam. A silly prick</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To gain me such unearned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Holiday making. And you, it appears,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Must be Sir Everard’s lady. And my fears</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">At being caught a-trespassing were quick.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-14" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He looked so rueful that she laughed out loud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“You are forgiven, Mr. Deane. Even more,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I offer you the fishing, and am proud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That you should find it pleasant from this shore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nobody fishes now, my husband used</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To angle daily, and I too with him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">He loved the spotted trout, and pike, and dace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He even had a whim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That flies my fingers tied swiftly confused</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The greater fish. And he must be excused,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Love weaves odd fancies in a lonely place.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-15" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>She sighed because it seemed so long ago,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Those days with Everard; unthinking took</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The path back to the orchard. Strolling so</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She walked, and he beside her. In a nook</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where a stone seat withdrew beneath low boughs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Full-blossomed, hummed with bees, they sat them down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She questioned him about the war, the share</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her husband had, and grown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eager by his clear answers, straight allows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hidden hopes and fears to speak, and rouse</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Her numbed love, which had slumbered unaware.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-16" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Under the orchard trees daffodils danced</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And jostled, turning sideways to the wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A dropping cherry petal softly glanced</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Over her hair, and slid away behind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the far end through twisted cherry-trees</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The old house glowed, geranium-hued, with bricks</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Bloomed in the sun like roses, low and long,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Gabled, and with quaint tricks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of chimneys carved and fretted. Out of these</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grey smoke was shaken, which the faint Spring breeze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Tossed into nothing. Then a thrush’s song</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-17" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Needled its way through sound of bees and river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The notes fell, round and starred, between young leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trilled to a spiral lilt, stopped on a quiver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The Lady Eunice listens and believes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gervase has many tales of her dear Lord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His bravery, his knowledge, his charmed life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She quite forgets who’s speaking in the gladness</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of being this man’s wife.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gervase is wounded, grave indeed, the word</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is kindly said, but to a softer chord</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She strings her voice to ask with wistful sadness,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-18" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“And is Sir Everard still unscathed? I fain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Would know the truth.” “Quite well, dear Lady, quite.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She smiled in her content. “So many slain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">You must forgive me for a little fright.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he forgave her, not alone for that,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But because she was fingering his heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Pressing and squeezing it, and thinking so</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Only to ease her smart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of painful, apprehensive longing. At</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their feet the river swirled and chucked. They sat</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">An hour there. The thrush flew to and fro.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-19" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The Lady Eunice supped alone that day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As always since Sir Everard had gone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the oak-panelled parlour, whose array</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of faded portraits in carved mouldings shone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Warriors and ladies, armoured, ruffed, peruked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Van Dykes with long, slim fingers; Holbeins, stout</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And heavy-featured; and one Rubens dame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A peony just burst out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With flaunting, crimson flesh. Eunice rebuked</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her thoughts of gentler blood, when these had duked</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">It with the best, and scorned to change their name.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-20" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A sturdy family, and old besides,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Much older than her own, the Earls of Crowe.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since Saxon days, these men had sought their brides</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Among the highest born, but always so,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Taking them to themselves, their wealth, their lands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But never their titles. Stern perhaps, but strong,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">The Framptons fed their blood from richest streams,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Scorning the common throng.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gazing upon these men, she understands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The toughness of the web wrought from such strands</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And pride of Everard colours all her dreams.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-21" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Eunice forgets to eat, watching their faces</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Flickering in the wind-blown candle’s shine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blue-coated lackeys tiptoe to their places,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And set out plates of fruit and jugs of wine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The table glitters black like Winter ice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The Dartle’s rushing, and the gentle clash</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of blossomed branches, drifts into her ears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And through the casement sash</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She sees each cherry stem a pointed slice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of splintered moonlight, topped with all the spice</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And shimmer of the blossoms it uprears.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-22" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“In such a night⁠—” she laid the book aside,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She could outnight the poet by thinking back.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In such a night she came here as a bride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The date was graven in the almanack</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of her clasped memory. In this very room</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Had Everard uncloaked her. On this seat</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Had drawn her to him, bade her note the trees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">How white they were and sweet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And later, coming to her, her dear groom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her Lord, had lain beside her in the gloom</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of moon and shade, and whispered her to ease.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-23" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Her little taper made the room seem vast,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Caverned and empty. And her beating heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rapped through the silence all about her cast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Like some loud, dreadful death-watch taking part</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In this sad vigil. Slowly she undrest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Put out the light and crept into her bed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">The linen sheets were fragrant, but so cold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And brimming tears she shed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sobbing and quivering in her barren nest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her weeping lips into the pillow prest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Her eyes sealed fast within its smothering fold.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-24" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The morning brought her a more stoic mind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sunshine struck across the polished floor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She wondered whether this day she should find</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Gervase a-fishing, and so listen more,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Much more again, to all he had to tell.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he was there, but waiting to begin</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Until she came. They fished awhile, then went</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To the old seat within</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cherry’s shade. He pleased her very well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By his discourse. But ever he must dwell</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Upon Sir Everard. Each incident</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-25" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Must be related and each term explained.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">How troops were set in battle, how a siege</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was ordered and conducted. She complained</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Because he bungled at the fall of Liege.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The curious names of parts of forts she knew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And aired with conscious pride her ravelins,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And counterscarps, and lunes. The day drew on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his dead fish’s fins</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the hot sunshine turned a mauve-green hue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At last Gervase, guessing the hour, withdrew.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">But she sat long in still oblivion.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-26" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Then he would bring her books, and read to her</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The poems of Dr. Donne, and the blue river</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would murmur through the reading, and a stir</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of birds and bees make the white petals shiver,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And one or two would flutter prone and lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Spotting the smooth-clipped grass. The days went by</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Threaded with talk and verses. Green leaves pushed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Through blossoms stubbornly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gervase, unconscious of dishonesty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fell into strong and watchful loving, free</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">He thought, since always would his lips be hushed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-27" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>But lips do not stay silent at command,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And Gervase strove in vain to order his.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Luckily Eunice did not understand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That he but read himself aloud, for this</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their friendship would have snapped. She treated him</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And spoilt him like a brother. It was now</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">“Gervase” and “Eunice” with them, and he dined</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whenever she’d allow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the oak parlour, underneath the dim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old pictured Framptons, opposite her slim</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Figure, so bright against the chair behind.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-28" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Eunice was happier than she had been</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For many days, and yet the hours were long.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All Gervase told to her but made her lean</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">More heavily upon the past. Among</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hopes she lived, even when she was giving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her morning orders, even when she twined</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Nosegays to deck her parlours. With the thought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of Everard, her mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Solaced its solitude, and in her striving</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To do as he would wish was all her living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She welcomed Gervase for the news he brought.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-29" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Black-hearts and white-hearts, bubbled with the sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hid in their leaves and knocked against each other.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eunice was standing, panting with her run</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Up to the tool-house just to get another</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Basket. All those which she had brought were filled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And still Gervase pelted her from above.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">The buckles of his shoes flashed higher and higher</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Until his shoulders strove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Quite through the top. “Eunice, your spirit’s filled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This tree. White-hearts!” He shook, and cherries spilled</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And spat out from the leaves like falling fire.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-30" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The wide, sun-winged June morning spread itself</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Over the quiet garden. And they packed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Full twenty baskets with the fruit. “My shelf</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of cordials will be stored with what it lacked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In future, none of us will drink strong ale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But cherry-brandy.” “Vastly good, I vow,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And Gervase gave the tree another shake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The cherries seemed to flow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of the sky in cloudfuls, like blown hail.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swift Lady Eunice ran, her farthingale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Unnoticed, tangling in a fallen rake.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-31" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>She gave a little cry and fell quite prone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the long grass, and lay there very still.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gervase leapt from the tree at her soft moan,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And kneeling over her, with clumsy skill</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unloosed her bodice, fanned her with his hat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his unguarded lips pronounced his heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">“Eunice, my Dearest Girl, where are you hurt?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His trembling fingers dart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over her limbs seeking some wound. She strove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To answer, opened wide her eyes, above</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Her knelt Sir Everard, with face alert.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-32" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Her eyelids fell again at that sweet sight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“My Love!” she murmured, “Dearest! Oh, my Dear!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He took her in his arms and bore her right</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And tenderly to the old seat, and “Here</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have you mine at last,” she said, and swooned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Under his kisses. When she came once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">To sight of him, she smiled in comfort knowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Herself laid as before</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Close covered on his breast. And all her glowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Youth answered him, and ever nearer growing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She twined him in her arms and soft festooned</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-33" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Herself about him like a flowering vine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Drawing his lips to cling upon her own.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A ray of sunlight pierced the leaves to shine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Where her half-opened bodice let be shown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her white throat fluttering to his soft caress,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Half-gasping with her gladness. And her pledge</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She whispers, melting with delight. A twig</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Snaps in the hornbeam hedge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A cackling laugh tears through the quietness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eunice starts up in terrible distress.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">“My God! What’s that?” Her staring eyes are big.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-34" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Revulsed emotion set her body shaking</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As though she had an ague. Gervase swore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Jumped to his feet in such a dreadful taking</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His face was ghastly with the look it wore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crouching and slipping through the trees, a man</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In worn, blue livery, a humpbacked thing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Made off. But turned every few steps to gaze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">At Eunice, and to fling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vile looks and gestures back. “The ruffian!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By Christ’s Death! I will split him to a span</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of hog’s thongs.” She grasped at his sleeve, “Gervase!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-35" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>What are you doing here? Put down that sword,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That’s only poor old Tony, crazed and lame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We never notice him. With my dear Lord</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I ought not to have minded that he came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, Gervase, it surprises me that you</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Should so lack grace to stay here.” With one hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She held her gaping bodice to conceal</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her breast. “I must demand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your instant absence. Everard, but new</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Returned, will hardly care for guests. Adieu.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">“Eunice, you’re mad.” His brain began to reel.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-36" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He tried again to take her, tried to twist</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her arms about him. Truly, she had said</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nothing should ever part them. In a mist</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She pushed him from her, clasped her aching head</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In both her hands, and rocked and sobbed aloud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“Oh! Where is Everard? What does this mean?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">So lately come to leave me thus alone!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But Gervase had not seen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sir Everard. Then, gently, to her bowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sickening spirit, he told of her proud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Surrender to him. He could hear her moan.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-37" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Then shame swept over her and held her numb,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hiding her anguished face against the seat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At last she rose, a woman stricken⁠—dumb⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And trailed away with slowly-dragging feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gervase looked after her, but feared to pass</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The barrier set between them. All his rare</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Joy broke to fragments⁠—worse than that, unreal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And standing lonely there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His swollen heart burst out, and on the grass</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He flung himself and wept. He knew, alas!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">The loss so great his life could never heal.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-38" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>For days thereafter Eunice lived retired,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Waited upon by one old serving-maid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She would not leave her chamber, and desired</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Only to hide herself. She was afraid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of what her eyes might trick her into seeing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of what her longing urge her then to do.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">What was this dreadful illness solitude</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Had tortured her into?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hours went by in a long constant fleeing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The thought of that one morning. And her being</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Bruised itself on a happening so rude.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-39" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>It grew ripe Summer, when one morning came</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her tirewoman with a letter, printed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon the seal were the Deane crest and name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With utmost gentleness, the letter hinted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His understanding and his deep regret.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But would she not permit him once again</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">To pay her his profound respects? No word</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of what had passed should pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her resolution. Only let them get</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Back the old comradeship. Her eyes were wet</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">With starting tears, now truly she deplored</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-40" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XL</h3>
					<p>
						<span>His misery. Yes, she was wrong to keep</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Away from him. He hardly was to blame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Twas she⁠—she shuddered and began to weep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">’Twas her fault! Hers! Her everlasting shame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was that she suffered him, whom not at all</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She loved. Poor Boy! Yes, they must still be friends.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She owed him that to keep the balance straight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It was such poor amends</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which she could make for rousing hopes to gall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him with their unfulfilment. Tragical</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">It was, and she must leave him desolate.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-41" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Hard silence he had forced upon his lips</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For long and long, and would have done so still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had not she⁠—here she pressed her finger tips</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Against her heavy eyes. Then with forced will</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She wrote that he might come, sealed with the arms</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of Crowe and Frampton twined. Her heart felt lighter</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">When this was done. It seemed her constant care</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Might some day cease to fright her.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Illness could be no crime, and dreadful harms</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did come from too much sunshine. Her alarms</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Would lessen when she saw him standing there,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-42" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Simple and kind, a brother just returned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">From journeying, and he would treat her so.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She knew his honest heart, and if there burned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A spark in it he would not let it show.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But when he really came, and stood beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her underneath the fruitless cherry boughs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">He seemed a tired man, gaunt, leaden-eyed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He made her no more vows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor did he mention one thing he had tried</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To put into his letter. War supplied</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Him topics. And his mind seemed occupied.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-43" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Daily they met. And gravely walked and talked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He read her no more verses, and he stayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only until their conversation, balked</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of every natural channel, fled dismayed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again the next day she would meet him, trying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To give her tone some healthy sprightliness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">But his uneager dignity soon chilled</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her well-prepared address.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thus Summer waned, and in the mornings, crying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of wild geese startled Eunice, and their flying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Whirred overhead for days and never stilled.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-44" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>One afternoon of grey clouds and white wind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Eunice awaited Gervase by the river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Dartle splashed among the reeds and whined</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Over the willow-roots, and a long sliver</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of caked and slobbered foam crept up the bank.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">All through the garden, drifts of skirling leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Blew up, and settled down, and blew again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The cherry-trees were weaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of empty, knotted branches, and a dank</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mist hid the house, mouldy it smelt and rank</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">With sodden wood, and still unfalling rain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-45" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Eunice paced up and down. No joy she took</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">At meeting Gervase, but the custom grown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still held her. He was late. She sudden shook,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And caught at her stopped heart. Her eyes had shown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sir Everard emerging from the mist.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His uniform was travel-stained and torn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">His jackboots muddy, and his eager stride</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Jangled his spurs. A thorn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Entangled, trailed behind him. To the tryst</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He hastened. Eunice shuddered, ran⁠—a twist</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Round a sharp turning and she fled to hide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-46" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>But he had seen her as she swiftly ran,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A flash of white against the river’s grey.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Eunice,” he called. “My Darling. Eunice. Can</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">You hear me? It is Everard. All day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have been riding like the very devil</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To reach you sooner. Are you startled, Dear?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">He broke into a run and followed her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And caught her, faint with fear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cowering and trembling as though she some evil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spirit were seeing. “What means this uncivil</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Greeting, Dear Heart?” He saw her senses blur.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-47" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Swaying and catching at the seat, she tried</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To speak, but only gurgled in her throat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At last, straining to hold herself, she cried</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To him for pity, and her strange words smote</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A coldness through him, for she begged Gervase</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To leave her, ’twas too much a second time.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Gervase must go, always Gervase, her mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Repeated like a rhyme</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This name he did not know. In sad amaze</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He watched her, and that hunted, fearful gaze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">So unremembering and so unkind.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-48" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Softly he spoke to her, patiently dealt</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With what he feared her madness. By and by</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He pierced her understanding. Then he knelt</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon the seat, and took her hands: “Now try</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think a minute I am come, my Dear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Unharmed and back on furlough. Are you glad</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">To have your lover home again? To me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Pickthorn has never had</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A greater pleasantness. Could you not bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To come and sit awhile beside me here?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">A stone between us surely should not be.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-49" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>She smiled a little wan and ravelled smile,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then came to him and on his shoulder laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her head, and they two rested there awhile,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Each taking comfort. Not a word was said.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But when he put his hand upon her breast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And felt her beating heart, and with his lips</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Sought solace for her and himself. She started</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As one sharp lashed with whips,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And pushed him from her, moaning, his dumb quest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Denied and shuddered from. And he, distrest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Loosened his wife, and long they sat there, parted.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-50" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">L</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Eunice was very quiet all that day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A little dazed, and yet she seemed content.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At candle-time, he asked if she would play</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon her harpsichord, at once she went</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And tinkled airs from Lully’s ‘Carnival’</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And ‘Bacchus’, newly brought away from France.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Then jaunted through a lively rigadoon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To please him with a dance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By Purcell, for he said that surely all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Good Englishmen had pride in national</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Accomplishment. But tiring of it soon</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-51" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He whispered her that if she had forgiven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His startling her that afternoon, the clock</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marked early bed-time. Surely it was Heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He entered when she opened to his knock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hours rustled in the trailing wind</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Over the chimney. Close they lay and knew</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Only that they were wedded. At his touch</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Anxiety she threw</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away like a shed garment, and inclined</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herself to cherish him, her happy mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Quivering, unthinking, loving overmuch.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-52" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Eunice lay long awake in the cool night</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">After her husband slept. She gazed with joy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the shadows, painting them with bright</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Pictures of all her future life’s employ.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twin gems they were, set to a single jewel,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Each shining with the other. Soft she turned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And felt his breath upon her hair, and prayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her happiness was earned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past Earls of Crowe should give their blood for fuel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To light this Frampton’s hearth-fire. By no cruel</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Affrightings would she ever be dismayed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-53" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>When Everard, next day, asked her in joke</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">What name it was that she had called him by,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She told him of Gervase, and as she spoke</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She hardly realized it was a lie.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her vision she related, but she hid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The fondness into which she had been led.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Sir Everard just laughed and pinched her ear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And quite out of her head</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The matter drifted. Then Sir Everard chid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Himself for laziness, and off he rid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">To see his men and count his farming-gear.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-54" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>At supper he seemed overspread with gloom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But gave no reason why, he only asked</span>
						<br/>
						<span>More questions of Gervase, and round the room</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He walked with restless strides. At last he tasked</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her with a greater feeling for this man</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Than she had given. Eunice quick denied</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">The slightest interest other than a friend</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Might claim. But he replied</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He thought she underrated. Then a ban</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He put on talk and music. He’d a plan</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">To work at, draining swamps at Pickthorn End.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-55" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Next morning Eunice found her Lord still changed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hard and unkind, with bursts of anger. Pride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kept him from speaking out. His probings ranged</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">All round his torment. Lady Eunice tried</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To sooth him. So a week went by, and then</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His anguish flooded over; with clenched hands</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Striving to stem his words, he told her plain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Tony had seen them, “brands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Burning in Hell,” the man had said. Again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eunice described her vision, and how when</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Awoke at last she had known dreadful pain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-56" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He could not credit it, and misery fed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon his spirit, day by day it grew.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Gervase he forbade the house, and led</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The Lady Eunice such a life she flew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At his approaching footsteps. Winter came</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Snowing and blustering through the Manor trees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">All the roof-edges spiked with icicles</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In fluted companies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Lady Eunice with her tambour-frame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kept herself sighing company. The flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of the birch fire glittered on the walls.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-57" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A letter was brought to her as she sat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Unsealed, unsigned. It told her that his wound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The writer’s, had so well recovered that</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To join his regiment he felt him bound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But would she not wish him one short “Godspeed”,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He asked no more. Her greeting would suffice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">He had resolved he never should return.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Would she this sacrifice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Make for a dying man? How could she read</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rest! But forcing her eyes to the deed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">She read. Then dropped it in the fire to burn.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-58" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Gervase had set the river for their meeting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As farthest from the farms where Everard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spent all his days. How should he know such cheating</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Was quite expected, at least no dullard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was Everard Frampton. Hours by hours he hid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Among the willows watching. Dusk had come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And from the Manor he had long been gone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Eunice her burdensome</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Task set about. Hooded and cloaked, she slid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the slippery paths, and soon amid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">The sallows saw a boat tied to a stone.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-59" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Gervase arose, and kissed her hand, then pointed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Into the boat. She shook her head, but he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Begged her to realize why, and with disjointed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Words told her of what peril there might be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From listeners along the river bank.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A push would take them out of earshot. Ten</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Minutes was all he asked, then she should land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He go away again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forever this time. Yet how could he thank</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her for so much compassion. Here she sank</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Upon a thwart, and bid him quick unstrand</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-60" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>His boat. He cast the rope, and shoved the keel</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Free of the gravel; jumped, and dropped beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her; took the oars, and they began to steal</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Under the overhanging trees. A wide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gash of red lantern-light cleft like a blade</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Into the gloom, and struck on Eunice sitting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Rigid and stark upon the after thwart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It blazed upon their flitting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In merciless light. A moment so it stayed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then was extinguished, and Sir Everard made</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">One leap, and landed just a fraction short.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-61" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>His weight upon the gunwale tipped the boat</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To straining balance. Everard lurched and seized</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His wife and held her smothered to his coat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“Everard, loose me, we shall drown⁠—” and squeezed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Against him, she beat with her hands. He gasped</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">“Never, by God!” The slidden boat gave way</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And the black foamy water split⁠—and met.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Bubbled up through the spray</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wailing rose and in the branches rasped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And creaked, and stilled. Over the treetops, clasped</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">In the blue evening, a clear moon was set.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pickthorn-manor-62" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>They lie entangled in the twisting roots,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Embraced forever. Their cold marriage bed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Close-canopied and curtained by the shoots</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of willows and pale birches. At the head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>White lilies, like still swans, placidly float</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sway above the pebbles. Here are waves</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Sun-smitten for a threaded counterpane</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Gold-woven on their graves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In perfect quietness they sleep, remote</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the green, rippled twilight. Death has smote</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Them to perpetual oneness who were twain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cremona-violin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Cremona Violin</h2>
				<section id="the-cremona-violin-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">Part First</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Frau Concert-Meister Altgelt shut the door.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A storm was rising, heavy gusts of wind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swirled through the trees, and scattered leaves before</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her on the clean, flagged path. The sky behind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The distant town was black, and sharp defined</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Against it shone the lines of roofs and towers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Superimposed and flat like cardboard flowers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A pasted city on a purple ground,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Picked out with luminous paint, it seemed. The cloud</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Split on an edge of lightning, and a sound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of rivers full and rushing boomed through bowed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tossed, hissing branches. Thunder rumbled loud</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beyond the town fast swallowing into gloom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Frau Altgelt closed the windows of each room.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She bustled round to shake by constant moving</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The strange, weird atmosphere. She stirred the fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She twitched the supper-cloth as though improving</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its careful setting, then her own attire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came in for notice, tiptoeing higher and higher</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She peered into the wall-glass, now adjusting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A straying lock, or else a ribbon thrusting</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This way or that to suit her. At last sitting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or rather plumping down upon a chair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She took her work, the stocking she was knitting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And watched the rain upon the window glare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In white, bright drops. Through the black glass a flare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of lightning squirmed about her needles. “Oh!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She cried. “What can be keeping Theodore so!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A roll of thunder set the casements clapping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Frau Altgelt flung her work aside and ran,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pulled open the house door, with kerchief flapping</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She stood and gazed along the street. A man</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flung back the garden-gate and nearly ran</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her down as she stood in the door. “Why, Dear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What in the name of patience brings you here?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Quick, Lotta, shut the door, my violin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I fear is wetted. Now, Dear, bring a light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This clasp is very much too worn and thin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll take the other fiddle out to-night</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If it still rains. Tut! Tut! my child, you’re quite</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clumsy. Here, help me, hold the case while I⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me the candle. No, the inside’s dry.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Thank God for that! Well, Lotta, how are you?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A bad storm, but the house still stands, I see.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is my pipe filled, my Dear? I’ll have a few</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Puffs and a snooze before I eat my tea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What do you say? That you were feared for me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nonsense, my child. Yes, kiss me, now don’t talk.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I need a rest, the theatre’s a long walk.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Her needles still, her hands upon her lap</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Patiently laid, Charlotta Altgelt sat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And watched the rain-run window. In his nap</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her husband stirred and muttered. Seeing that,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta rose and softly, pit-a-pat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Climbed up the stairs, and in her little room</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Found sighing comfort with a moon in bloom.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But even rainy windows, silver-lit</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By a new-burst, storm-whetted moon, may give</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But poor content to loneliness, and it</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was hard for young Charlotta so to strive</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And down her eagerness and learn to live</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In placid quiet. While her husband slept,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta in her upper chamber wept.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Herr Concert-Meister Altgelt was a man</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gentle and unambitious, that alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had kept him back. He played as few men can,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drawing out of his instrument a tone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So shimmering-sweet and palpitant, it shone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like a bright thread of sound hung in the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Afloat and swinging upward, slim and fair.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Above all things, above Charlotta his wife,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herr Altgelt loved his violin, a fine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cremona pattern, Stradivari’s life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was flowering out of early discipline</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When this was fashioned. Of soft-cutting pine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The belly was. The back of broadly curled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Maple, the head made thick and sharply whirled.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">The slanting, youthful sound-holes through</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The belly of fine, vigorous pine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mellowed each note and blew</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It out again with a woody flavour</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Tanged and fragrant as fir-trees are</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When breezes in their needles jar.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">The varnish was an orange-brown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lustered like glass that’s long laid down</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Under a crumbling villa stone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Purfled stoutly, with mitres which point</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Straight up the corners. Each curve and joint</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Clear, and bold, and thin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Such was Herr Theodore’s violin.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Seven o’clock, the Concert-Meister gone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With his best violin, the rain being stopped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Frau Lotta in the kitchen sat alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Watching the embers which the fire dropped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The china shone upon the dresser, topped</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By polished copper vessels which her skill</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kept brightly burnished. It was very still.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>An air from ‘Orfeo’ hummed in her head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herr Altgelt had been practising before</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The night’s performance. Charlotta had plead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With him to stay with her. Even at the door</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She’d begged him not to go. “I do implore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You for this evening, Theodore,” she had said.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Leave them to-night, and stay with me instead.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“A silly poppet!” Theodore pinched her ear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“You’d like to have our good Elector turn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me out I think.” “But, Theodore, something queer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ails me. Oh, do but notice how they burn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My cheeks! The thunder worried me. You’re stern,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And cold, and only love your work, I know.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But Theodore, for this evening, do not go.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But he had gone, hurriedly at the end,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For she had kept him talking. Now she sat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alone again, always alone, the trend</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all her thinking brought her back to that</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She wished to banish. What would life be? What?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For she was young, and loved, while he was moved</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only by music. Each day that was proved.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Each day he rose and practised. While he played,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She stopped her work and listened, and her heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swelled painfully beneath her bodice. Swayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And longing, she would hide from him her smart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Well, Lottchen, will that do?” Then what a start</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She gave, and she would run to him and cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he would gently chide her, “Fie, Dear, fie.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I’m glad I played it well. But such a taking!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’ll hear the thing enough before I’ve done.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And she would draw away from him, still shaking.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had he but guessed she was another one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another violin. Her strings were aching,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stretched to the touch of his bow hand, again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He played and she almost broke at the strain.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Where was the use of thinking of it now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sitting alone and listening to the clock!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She’d best make haste and knit another row.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Three hours at least must pass before his knock</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would startle her. It always was a shock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She listened⁠—listened⁠—for so long before,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That when it came her hearing almost tore.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She caught herself just starting in to listen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What nerves she had: rattling like brittle sticks!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She wandered to the window, for the glisten</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a bright moon was tempting. Snuffed the wicks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of her two candles. Still she could not fix</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To anything. The moon in a broad swath</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beckoned her out and down the garden-path.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Against the house, her hollyhocks stood high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And black, their shadows doubling them. The night</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was white and still with moonlight, and a sigh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of blowing leaves was there, and the dim flight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of insects, and the smell of aconite,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And stocks, and Marvel of Peru. She flitted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the path, where blocks of shadow pitted</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The even flags. She let herself go dreaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Theodore her husband, and the tune</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From ‘Orfeo’ swam through her mind, but seeming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Changed⁠—shriller. Of a sudden, the clear moon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Showed her a passer-by, inopportune</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Indeed, but here he was, whistling and striding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lotta squeezed in between the currants, hiding.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“The best laid plans of mice and men,” alas!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stranger came indeed, but did not pass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Instead, he leant upon the garden-gate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Folding his arms and whistling. Lotta’s state,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crouched in the prickly currants, on wet grass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was far from pleasant. Still the stranger stayed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Lotta in her currants watched, dismayed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He seemed a proper fellow standing there</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the bright moonshine. His cocked hat was laced</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With silver, and he wore his own brown hair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tied, but unpowdered. His whole bearing graced</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A fine cloth coat, and ruffled shirt, and chased</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sword-hilt. Charlotta looked, but her position</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was hardly easy. When would his volition</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Suggest his walking on? And then that tune!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A half-a-dozen bars from ‘Orfeo’</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gone over and over, and murdered. What Fortune</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had brought him there to stare about him so?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Ach, Gott im Himmel! Why will he not go!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thought Lotta, but the young man whistled on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And seemed in no great hurry to be gone.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Charlotta, crouched among the currant bushes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Watched the moon slowly dip from twig to twig.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If Theodore should chance to come, and blushes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Streamed over her. He would not care a fig,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He’d only laugh. She pushed aside a sprig</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sharp-edged leaves and peered, then she uprose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid her bushes. “Sir,” said she, “pray whose</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Garden do you suppose you’re watching? Why</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Do you stand there? I really must insist</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon your leaving. ’Tis unmannerly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To stay so long.” The young man gave a twist</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And turned about, and in the amethyst</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Moonlight he saw her like a nymph half-risen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the green bushes which had been her prison.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He swept his hat off in a hurried bow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Your pardon, Madam, I had no idea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I was not quite alone, and that is how</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I came to stay. My trespass was not sheer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Impertinence. I thought no one was here,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And really gardens cry to be admired.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To-night especially it seemed required.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And may I beg to introduce myself?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heinrich Marohl of Munich. And your name?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta told him. And the artful elf</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Promptly exclaimed about her husband’s fame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So Lotta, half-unwilling, slowly came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To conversation with him. When she went</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the house, she found the evening spent.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Theodore arrived quite wearied out and teased,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all excitement in him burned away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It had gone well, he said, the audience pleased,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he had played his very best to-day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But afterwards he had been forced to stay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And practise with the stupid ones. His head</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ached furiously, and he must get to bed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-cremona-violin-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">Part Second</h3>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">Herr Concert-Meister Altgelt played,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the four strings of his violin</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Were spinning like bees on a day in Spring.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The notes rose into the wide sun-mote</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which slanted through the window,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They lay like coloured beads a-row,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They knocked together and parted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And started to dance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Skipping, tripping, each one slipping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Under and over the others so</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That the polychrome fire streamed like a lance</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or a comet’s tail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Behind them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then a wail arose⁠—crescendo⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And dropped from off the end of the bow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the dancing stopped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A scent of lilies filled the room,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Long and slow. Each large white bloom</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Breathed a sound which was holy perfume from a blessed censer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the hum of an organ tone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And they waved like fans in a hall of stone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Over a bier standing there in the centre, alone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Each lily bent slowly as it was blown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Like smoke they rose from the violin⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then faded as a swifter bowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Jumbled the notes like wavelets flowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In a splashing, pashing, rippling motion</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Between broad meadows to an ocean</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wide as a day and blue as a flower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where every hour</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Gulls dipped, and scattered, and squawked, and squealed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And over the marshes the Angelus pealed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the prows of the fishing-boats were spattered</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With spray.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And away a couple of frigates were starting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To race to Java with all sails set,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Topgallants, and royals, and stunsails, and jibs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And wide moonsails; and the shining rails</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Were polished so bright they sparked in the sun.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All the sails went up with a run:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">“They call me Hanging Johnny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Away-i-oh;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">They call me Hanging Johnny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">So hang, boys, hang.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the sun had set and the high moon whitened,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the ship heeled over to the breeze.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He drew her into the shade of the sails,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And whispered tales</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of voyages in the China seas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And his arm around her</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Held and bound her.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She almost swooned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the breeze and the moon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the slipping sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And he beside her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Touching her, leaning⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The ship careening,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the white moon steadily shining over</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her and her lover,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theodore, still her lover!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">Then a quiver fell on the crowded notes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And slowly floated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A single note which spread and spread</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till it filled the room with a shimmer like gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And noises shivered throughout its length,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And tried its strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They pulled it, and tore it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the stuff waned thinner, but still it bore it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then a wide rent</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Split the arching tent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And balls of fire spurted through,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spitting yellow, and mauve, and blue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">One by one they were quenched as they fell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Only the blue burned steadily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Paler and paler it grew, and⁠—faded⁠—away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herr Altgelt stopped.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Well, Lottachen, my Dear, what do you say?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I think I’m in good trim. Now let’s have dinner.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What’s this, my Love, you’re very sweet to-day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I wonder how it happens I’m the winner</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of so much sweetness. But I think you’re thinner;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’re like a bag of feathers on my knee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Why, Lotta child, you’re almost strangling me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I’m glad you’re going out this afternoon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The days are getting short, and I’m so tied</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the Court Theatre my poor little bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has not much junketing I fear, but soon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll ask our manager to grant a boon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To-night, perhaps, I’ll get a pass for you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when I go, why Lotta can come too.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Now dinner, Love. I want some onion soup</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To whip me up till that rehearsal’s over.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You know it’s odd how some women can stoop!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fraeulein Gebnitz has taken on a lover,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A Jew named Goldstein. No one can discover</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If it’s his money. But she lives alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Practically. Gebnitz is a stone,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Pores over books all day, and has no ear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For his wife’s singing. Artists must have men;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They need appreciation. But it’s queer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What messes people make of their lives, when</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They should know more. If Gebnitz finds out, then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His wife will pack. Yes, shut the door at once.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I did not feel it cold, I am a dunce.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Frau Altgelt tied her bonnet on and went</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the streets. A bright, crisp Autumn wind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flirted her skirts and hair. A turbulent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Audacious wind it was, now close behind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pushing her bonnet forward till it twined</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The strings across her face, then from in front</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slantingly swinging at her with a shunt,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Until she lay against it, struggling, pushing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dismayed to find her clothing tightly bound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Around her, every fold and wrinkle crushing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Itself upon her, so that she was wound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In draperies as clinging as those found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sucking about a sea nymph on the frieze</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of some old Grecian temple. In the breeze</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The shops and houses had a quality</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of hard and dazzling colour; something sharp</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And buoyant, like white, puffing sails at sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The city streets were twanging like a harp.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta caught the movement, skippingly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She blew along the pavement, hardly knowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toward what destination she was going.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She fetched up opposite a jeweller’s shop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where filigreed tiaras shone like crowns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And necklaces of emeralds seemed to drop</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then float up again with lightness. Browns</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of striped agates struck her like cold frowns</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid the gaiety of topaz seals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Carved though they were with heads, and arms, and wheels.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A row of pencils knobbed with quartz or sard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Delighted her. And rings of every size</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Turned smartly round like hoops before her eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amethyst-flamed or ruby-girdled, jarred</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To spokes and flashing triangles, and starred</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like rockets bursting on a festal day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta could not tear herself away.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>With eyes glued tightly on a golden box,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose rare enamel piqued her with its hue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Changeable, iridescent, shuttlecocks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of shades and lustres always darting through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its level, superimposing sheet of blue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta did not hear footsteps approaching.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She started at the words: “Am I encroaching?”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Oh, Heinrich, how you frightened me! I thought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We were to meet at three, is it quite that?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“No, it is not,” he answered, “but I’ve caught</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The trick of missing you. One thing is flat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cannot go on this way. Life is what</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Might best be conjured up by the word: ‘Hell’.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dearest, when will you come?” Lotta, to quell</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>His effervescence, pointed to the gems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within the window, asked him to admire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A bracelet or a buckle. But one stems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Uneasily the burning of a fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heinrich was chafing, pricked by his desire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Little by little she wooed him to her mood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until at last he promised to be good.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But here he started on another tack;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To buy a jewel, which one would Lotta choose.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She vainly urged against him all her lack</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of other trinkets. Should she dare to use</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A ring or brooch her husband might accuse</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her of extravagance, and ask to see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A strict accounting, or still worse might be.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But Heinrich would not be persuaded. Why</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should he not give her what he liked? And in</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He went, determined certainly to buy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A thing so beautiful that it would win</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her wavering fancy. Altgelt’s violin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He would outscore by such a handsome jewel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Lotta could no longer be so cruel!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Pity Charlotta, torn in diverse ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If she went in with him, the shopman might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Recognize her, give her her name; in days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To come he could denounce her. In her fright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She almost fled. But Heinrich would be quite</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Capable of pursuing. By and by</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She pushed the door and entered hurriedly.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It took some pains to keep him from bestowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A pair of ruby earrings, carved like roses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The setting twined to represent the growing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tendrils and leaves, upon her. “Who supposes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I could obtain such things! It simply closes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All comfort for me.” So he changed his mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bought as slight a gift as he could find.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A locket, frosted over with seed pearls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oblong and slim, for wearing at the neck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or hidden in the bosom; their joined curls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should lie in it. And further to bedeck</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His love, Heinrich had picked a whiff, a fleck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The merest puff of a thin, linked chain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To hang it from. Lotta could not refrain</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From weeping as they sauntered down the street.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She did not want the locket, yet she did.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To have him love her she found very sweet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But it is hard to keep love always hid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then there was something in her heart which chid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her, told her she loved Theodore in him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That all these meetings were a foolish whim.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She thought of Theodore and the life they led,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So near together, but so little mingled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The great clouds bulged and bellied overhead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the fresh wind about her body tingled;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crane of a large warehouse creaked and jingled;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta held her breath for very fear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>About her in the street she seemed to hear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">“They call me Hanging Johnny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Away-i-oh;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">They call me Hanging Johnny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">So hang, boys, hang.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And it was Theodore, under the racing skies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who held her and who whispered in her ear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She knew her heart was telling her no lies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beating and hammering. He was so dear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The touch of him would send her in a queer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swoon that was half an ecstasy. And yearning</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Theodore, she wandered, slowly turning</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Street after street as Heinrich wished it so.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He had some aim, she had forgotten what.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their progress was confused and very slow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But at the last they reached a lonely spot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A garden far above the highest shot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of soaring steeple. At their feet, the town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spread open like a chequer-board laid down.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Lotta was dimly conscious of the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vaguely remembered how he clasped the chain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>About her neck. She treated it in jest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And saw his face cloud over with sharp pain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then suddenly she felt as though a strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were put upon her, collared like a slave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leashed in the meshes of this thing he gave.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She seized the flimsy rings with both her hands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To snap it, but they held with odd persistence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her eyes were blinded by two wind-blown strands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of hair which had been loosened. Her resistance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Melted within her, from remotest distance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Misty, unreal, his face grew warm and near,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And giving way she knew him very dear.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>For long he held her, and they both gazed down</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the wide city, and its blue, bridged river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From wooing he jested with her, snipped the blown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strands of her hair, and tied them with a sliver</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cut from his own head. But she gave a shiver</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When, opening the locket, they were placed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under the glass, commingled and enlaced.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“When will you have it so with us?” He sighed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She shook her head. He pressed her further. “No,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No, Heinrich, Theodore loves me,” and she tried</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To free herself and rise. He held her so,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clipped by his arms, she could not move nor go.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“But you love me,” he whispered, with his face</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Burning against her through her kerchief’s lace.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Frau Altgelt knew she toyed with fire, knew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That what her husband lit this other man</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fanned to hot flame. She told herself that few</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Women were so discreet as she, who ran</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No danger since she knew what things to ban.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She opened her house door at five o’clock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A short half-hour before her husband’s knock.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-cremona-violin-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">Part Third</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The <em>Residenz-Theater</em> sparked and hummed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With lights and people. Gebnitz was to sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That rare soprano. All the fiddles strummed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With tuning up; the wood-winds made a ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of reedy bubbling noises, and the sting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sharp, red brass pierced every ear-drum; patting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From muffled tympani made a dark slatting</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Across the silver shimmering of flutes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A bassoon grunted, and an oboe wailed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ‘celli pizzicato-ed like great lutes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And mutterings of double basses trailed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away to silence, while loud harp-strings hailed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their thin, bright colours down in such a scatter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They lost themselves amid the general clatter.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Frau Altgelt in the gallery, alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Felt lifted up into another world.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before her eyes a thousand candles shone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the great chandeliers. A maze of curled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And powdered periwigs past her eyes swirled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She smelt the smoke of candles guttering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And caught the glint of jewelled fans fluttering</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All round her in the boxes. Red and gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The house, like rubies set in filigree,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Filliped the candlelight about, and bold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Young sparks with eye-glasses, unblushingly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ogled fair beauties in the balcony.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An officer went by, his steel spurs jangling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behind Charlotta an old man was wrangling</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>About a play-bill he had bought and lost.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Three drunken soldiers had to be ejected.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Frau Altgelt’s eyes stared at the vacant post</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Concert-Meister, she at once detected</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stir which brought him. But she felt neglected</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When with no glance about him or her way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He lifted up his violin to play.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">The curtain went up? Perhaps. If so,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Charlotta never saw it go.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The famous Fraeulein Gebnitz’ singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Only came to her like the ringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of bells at a festa</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which swing in the air</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And nobody realizes they are there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They jingle and jangle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And clang, and bang,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And never a soul could tell whether they rang,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the plopping of guns and rockets</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the chinking of silver to spend, in one’s pockets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the shuffling and clapping of feet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the loud flapping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of flags, with the drums,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As the military comes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It’s a famous tune to walk to,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And I wonder where they’re off to.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Step-step-stepping to the beating of the drums.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the rhythm changes as though a mist</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Were curling and twisting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Over the landscape.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For a moment a rhythmless, tuneless fog</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Encompasses her. Then her senses jog</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the breath of a stately minuet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Herr Altgelt’s violin is set</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In tune to the slow, sweeping bows, and retreats and advances,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To curtsies brushing the waxen floor as the Court dances.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Long and peaceful like warm Summer nights</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When stars shine in the quiet river. And against the lights</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Blundering insects knock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the ‘Rathaus’ clock</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Booms twice, through the shrill sounds</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of flutes and horns in the lamplit grounds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Pressed against him in the mazy wavering</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of a country dance, with her short breath quavering</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She leans upon the beating, throbbing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Music. Laughing, sobbing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Feet gliding after sliding feet;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His⁠—hers⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The ballroom blurs⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She feels the air</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lifting her hair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the lapping of water on the stone stair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He is there! He is there!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Twang harps, and squeal, you thin violins,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That the dancers may dance, and never discover</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The old stone stair leading down to the river</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the chestnut-tree branches hanging over</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her and her lover.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theodore, still her lover!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The evening passed like this, in a half faint,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Delirium with waking intervals</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which were the entr’acts. Under the restraint</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a large company, the constant calls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For oranges or syrops from the stalls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Outside, the talk, the passing to and fro,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lotta sat ill at ease, incognito.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She heard the Gebnitz praised, the tenor lauded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The music vaunted as most excellent.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The scenery and the costumes were applauded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The latter it was whispered had been sent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Italy. The Herr Direktor spent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A fortune on them, so the gossips said.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta felt a lightness in her head.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When the next act began, her eyes were swimming,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her prodded ears were aching and confused.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The first notes from the orchestra sent skimming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her outward consciousness. Her brain was fused</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the music, Theodore’s music! Used</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To hear him play, she caught his single tone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For all she noticed they two were alone.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-cremona-violin-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">Part Fourth</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Frau Altgelt waited in the chilly street,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hustled by lackeys who ran up and down</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shouting their coachmen’s names; forced to retreat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A pace or two by lurching chairmen; thrown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rudely aside by linkboys; boldly shown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ogling rapture in two bleary eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thrust close to hers in most unpleasant wise.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Escaping these, she hit a liveried arm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was sworn at by this glittering gentleman</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And ordered off. However, no great harm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came to her. But she looked a trifle wan</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Theodore, her belated guardian,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Emerged. She snuggled up against him, trembling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Half out of fear, half out of the assembling</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Of all the thoughts and needs his playing had given.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had she enjoyed herself, he wished to know.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Oh! Theodore, can’t you feel that it was Heaven!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Heaven! My Lottachen, and was it so?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gebnitz was in good voice, but all the flow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of her last aria was spoiled by Klops,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wretched flutist, she was mad as hops.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He was so simple, so matter-of-fact,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta Altgelt knew not what to say</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To bring him to her dream. His lack of tact</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kept him explaining all the homeward way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How this thing had gone well, that badly. “Stay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theodore!” she cried at last. “You know to me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nothing was real, it was an ecstasy.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And he was heartily glad she had enjoyed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herself so much, and said so. “But it’s good</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be got home again.” He was employed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In looking at his violin, the wood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was old, and evening air did it no good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But when he drew up to the table for tea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Something about his wife’s vivacity</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Struck him as hectic, worried him in short.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He talked of this and that but watched her close.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tea over, he endeavoured to extort</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cause of her excitement. She arose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And stood beside him, trying to compose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herself, all whipt to quivering, curdled life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he, poor fool, misunderstood his wife.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Suddenly, broken through her anxious grasp,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her music-kindled love crashed on him there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amazed, he felt her fling against him, clasp</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her arms about him, weighing down his chair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sobbing out all her hours of despair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Theodore, a woman needs to hear things proved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unless you tell me, I feel I’m not loved.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Theodore went under in this tearing wave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He yielded to it, and its headlong flow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Filled him with all the energy she gave.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He was a youth again, and this bright glow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This living, vivid joy he had to show</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her what she was to him. Laughing and crying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She asked assurances there’s no denying.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Over and over again her questions, till</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He quite convinced her, every now and then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She kissed him, shivering as though doubting still.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But later when they were composed and when</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She dared relax her probings, “Lottachen,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He asked, “how is it your love has withstood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My inadvertence? I was made of wood.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She told him, and no doubt she meant it truly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That he was sun, and grass, and wind, and sky</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To her. And even if conscience were unruly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She salved it by neat sophistries, but why</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suppose her insincere, it was no lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She said, for Heinrich was as much forgot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As though he’d never been within earshot.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But Theodore’s hands in straying and caressing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fumbled against the locket where it lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon her neck. “What is this thing I’m pressing?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He asked. “Let’s bring it to the light of day.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He lifted up the locket. “It should stay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Outside, my Dear. Your mother has good taste.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To keep it hidden surely is a waste.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Pity again Charlotta, straight aroused</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of her happiness. The locket brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A chilly jet of truth upon her, soused</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under its icy spurting she was caught,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And choked, and frozen. Suddenly she sought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The clasp, but with such art was this contrived</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her fumbling fingers never once arrived</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Upon it. Feeling, twisting, round and round,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She pulled the chain quite through the locket’s ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And still it held. Her neck, encompassed, bound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chafed at the sliding meshes. Such a thing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To hurl her out of joy! A gilded string</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Binding her folly to her, and those curls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which lay entwined beneath the clustered pearls!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Again she tried to break the cord. It stood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Unclasp it, Theodore,” she begged. But he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Refused, and being in a happy mood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twitted her with her inefficiency,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then looking at her very seriously:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I think, Charlotta, it is well to have</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Always about one what a mother gave.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>As she has taken the great pains to send</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This jewel to you from Dresden, it will be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ingratitude if you do not intend</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To carry it about you constantly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With her fine taste you cannot disagree,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The locket is most beautifully designed.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He opened it and there the curls were, twined.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Charlotta’s heart dropped beats like knitting-stitches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She burned a moment, flaming; then she froze.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her face was jerked by little, nervous twitches,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She heard her husband asking: “What are those?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Put out her hand quickly to interpose,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But stopped, the gesture half-complete, astounded</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the calm way the question was propounded.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“A pretty fancy, Dear, I do declare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Indeed I will not let you put it off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A lovely thought: yours and your mother’s hair!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta hid a gasp under a cough.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Never with my connivance shall you doff</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This charming gift.” He kissed her on the cheek,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Lotta suffered him, quite crushed and meek.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When later in their room she lay awake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Watching the moonlight slip along the floor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She felt the chain and wept for Theodore’s sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She had loved Heinrich also, and the core</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of truth, unlovely, startled her. Wherefore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She vowed from now to break this double life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And see herself only as Theodore’s wife.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-cremona-violin-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">Part Fifth</h3>
					<p>
						<span>It was no easy matter to convince</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heinrich that it was finished. Hard to say</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That though they could not meet (he saw her wince)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She still must keep the locket to allay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suspicion in her husband. She would pay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him from her savings bit by bit⁠—the oath</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He swore at that was startling to them both.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Her resolution taken, Frau Altgelt</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Adhered to it, and suffered no regret.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She found her husband all that she had felt</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His music to contain. Her days were set</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In his as though she were an amulet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cased in bright gold. She joyed in her confining;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her eyes put out her looking-glass with shining.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Charlotta was so gay that old, dull tasks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were furbished up to seem like rituals.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She baked and brewed as one who only asks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The right to serve. Her daily manuals</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of prayer were duties, and her festivals</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Theodore praised some dish, or frankly said</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She had a knack in making up a bed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>So Autumn went, and all the mountains round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The city glittered white with fallen snow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For it was Winter. Over the hard ground</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herr Altgelt’s footsteps came, each one a blow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the swept flags behind the currant row</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta stood to greet him. But his lip</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only flicked hers. His Concert-Meistership</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Was first again. This evening he had got</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Important news. The opera ordered from</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Young Mozart was arrived. That old despot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Bishop of Salzburg, had let him come</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Himself to lead it, and the parts, still hot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From copying, had been tried over. Never</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had any music started such a fever.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The orchestra had cheered till they were hoarse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The singers clapped and clapped. The town was made,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With such a great attraction through the course</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Carnival time. In what utter shade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All other cities would be left! The trade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In music would all drift here naturally.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In his excitement he forgot his tea.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Lotta was forced to take his cup and put</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It in his hand. But still he rattled on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sipping at intervals. The new catgut</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strings he was using gave out such a tone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The “Maestro” had remarked it, and had gone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of his way to praise him. Lotta smiled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He was as happy as a little child.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From that day on, Herr Altgelt, more and more,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Absorbed himself in work. Lotta at first</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was patient and well-wishing. But it wore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon her when two weeks had brought no burst</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of loving from him. Then she feared the worst;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That his short interest in her was a light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flared up an instant only in the night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>‘Idomeneo’ was the opera’s name,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A name that poor Charlotta learnt to hate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herr Altgelt worked so hard he seldom came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Home for his tea, and it was very late,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past midnight sometimes, when he knocked. His state</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was like a flabby orange whose crushed skin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is thin with pulling, and all dented in.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He practised every morning and her heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Followed his bow. But often she would sit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While he was playing, quite withdrawn apart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Absently fingering and touching it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The locket, which now seemed to her a bit</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of some gone youth. His music drew her tears,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And through the notes he played, her dreading ears</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Heard Heinrich’s voice, saying he had not changed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beer merchants had no ecstasies to take</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their minds off love. So far her thoughts had ranged</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away from her stern vow, she chanced to take</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her way, one morning, quite by a mistake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the street where Heinrich had his shop.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What harm to pass it since she should not stop!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It matters nothing how one day she met</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him on a bridge, and blushed, and hurried by.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor how the following week he stood to let</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her pass, the pavement narrowing suddenly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How once he took her basket, and once he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pulled back a rearing horse who might have struck</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her with his hoofs. It seemed the oddest luck</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>How many times their business took them each</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Right to the other. Then at last he spoke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But she would only nod, he got no speech</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From her. Next time he treated it in joke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that so lightly that her vow she broke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And answered. So they drifted into seeing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each other as before. There was no fleeing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Christmas was over and the Carnival</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was very near, and tripping from each tongue</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was talk of the new opera. Each book-stall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flaunted it out in bills, what airs were sung,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What singers hired. Pictures of the young</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Maestro” were for sale. The town was mad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only Charlotta felt depressed and sad.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Each day now brought a struggle ’twixt her will</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Heinrich’s. ’Twixt her love for Theodore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And him. Sometimes she wished to kill</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herself to solve her problem. For a score</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of reasons Heinrich tempted her. He bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her moods with patience, and so surely urged</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Himself upon her, she was slowly merged</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Into his way of thinking, and to fly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With him seemed easy. But next morning would</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Stradivarius undo her mood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then she would realize that she must cleave</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Always to Theodore. And she would try</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To convince Heinrich she should never leave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And afterwards she would go home and grieve.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All thought in Munich centered on the part</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of January when there would be given</span>
						<br/>
						<span>‘Idomeneo’ by Wolfgang Mozart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The twenty-ninth was fixed. And all seats, even</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Those almost at the ceiling, which were driven</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behind the highest gallery, were sold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The inches of the theatre went for gold.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Herr Altgelt was a shadow worn so thin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With work, he hardly printed black behind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The candle. He and his old violin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Made up one person. He was not unkind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But dazed outside his playing, and the rind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pine and maple of his fiddle, guarded</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A part of him which he had quite discarded.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">It woke in the silence of frost-bright nights,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In little lights,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Like will-o’-the-wisps flickering, fluttering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Here⁠—there⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spurting, sputtering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fading and lighting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Together, asunder⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till Lotta sat up in bed with wonder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the faint grey patch of the window shone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Upon her sitting there, alone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Theodore slept.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The twenty-eighth was last rehearsal day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Twas called for noon, so early morning meant</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Herr Altgelt’s only time in which to play</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His part alone. Drawn like a monk who’s spent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Himself in prayer and fasting, Theodore went</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the kitchen, with a weary word</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of cheer to Lotta, careless if she heard.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">Lotta heard more than his spoken word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She heard the vibrating of strings and wood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She was washing the dishes, her hands all suds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When the sound began,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Long as the span</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of a white road snaking about a hill.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The orchards are filled</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With cherry blossoms at butterfly poise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hawthorn buds are cracking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in the distance a shepherd is clacking</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His shears, snip-snipping the wool from his sheep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The notes are asleep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lying adrift on the air</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In level lines</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Like sunlight hanging in pines and pines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Strung and threaded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All imbedded</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the blue-green of the hazy pines.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lines⁠—long, straight lines!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And stems,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Long, straight stems</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Pushing up</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the cup of blue, blue sky.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Stems growing misty</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the many of them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Red-green mist</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the trees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wood-flavoured notes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The back is maple and the belly is pine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The rich notes twine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As though weaving in and out of leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Broad leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Flapping slowly like elephants’ ears,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Waving and falling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Another sound peers</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Through little pine fingers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And lingers, peeping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ping! Ping! pizzicato, something is cheeping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There is a twittering up in the branches,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A chirp and a lilt,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And crimson atilt on a swaying twig.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wings! Wings!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And a little ruffled-out throat which sings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The forest bends, tumultuous</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With song.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The woodpecker knocks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the song-sparrow trills,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Every fir, and cedar, and yew</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Has a nest or a bird,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It is quite absurd</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To hear them cutting across each other:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Peewits, and thrushes, and larks, all at once,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And a loud cuckoo is trying to smother</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A wood-pigeon perched on a birch,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Roo⁠—coo⁠—oo⁠—oo⁠—”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Cuckoo! Cuckoo! That’s one for you!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A blackbird whistles, how sharp, how shrill!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the great trees toss</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And leaves blow down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">You can almost hear them splash on the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The whistle again:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It is double and loud!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The leaves are splashing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And water is dashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Over those creepers, for they are shrouds;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And men are running up them to furl the sails,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For there is a capful of wind to-day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And we are already well under way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The deck is aslant in the bubbling breeze.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Theodore, please.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Oh, Dear, how you tease!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the boatswain’s whistle sounds again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the men pull on the sheets:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">“My name is Hanging Johnny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Away-i-oh;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">They call me Hanging Johnny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">So hang, boys, hang.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The trees of the forest are masts, tall masts;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They are swinging over</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her and her lover.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Almost swooning</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Under the ballooning canvas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She lies</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Looking up in his eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As he bends farther over.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theodore, still her lover!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The suds were dried upon Charlotta’s hands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She leant against the table for support,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wholly forgotten. Theodore’s eyes were brands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Burning upon his music. He stopped short.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Charlotta almost heard the sound of bands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Snapping. She put one hand up to her heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her fingers touched the locket with a start.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Herr Altgelt put his violin away</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Listlessly. “Lotta, I must have some rest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The strain will be a hideous one to-day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Don’t speak to me at all. It will be best</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If I am quiet till I go.” And lest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She disobey, he left her. On the stairs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She heard his mounting steps. What use were prayers!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He could not hear, he was not there, for she</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was married to a mummy, a machine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hand closed on the locket bitterly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before her, on a chair, lay the shagreen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Case of his violin. She saw the clean</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sun flash the open clasp. The locket’s edge</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cut at her fingers like a pushing wedge.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A heavy cart went by, a distant bell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chimed ten, the fire flickered in the grate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She was alone. Her throat began to swell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With sobs. What kept her here, why should she wait?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The violin she had begun to hate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lay in its case before her. Here she flung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cover open. With the fiddle swung</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Over her head, the hanging clock’s loud ticking</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Caught on her ear. ’Twas slow, and as she paused</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The little door in it came open, flicking</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wooden cuckoo out: “Cuckoo!” It caused</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The forest dream to come again. “Cuckoo!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Smashed on the grate, the violin broke in two.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Cuckoo! Cuckoo!” the clock kept striking on;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But no one listened. Frau Altgelt had gone.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cross-roads" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Cross-Roads</h2>
				<p>A bullet through his heart at dawn. On the table a letter signed with a woman’s name. A wind that goes howling round the house, and weeping as in shame. Cold November dawn peeping through the windows, cold dawn creeping over the floor, creeping up his cold legs, creeping over his cold body, creeping across his cold face. A glaze of thin yellow sunlight on the staring eyes. Wind howling through bent branches. A wind which never dies down. Howling, wailing. The gazing eyes glitter in the sunlight. The lids are frozen open and the eyes glitter.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The thudding of a pick on hard earth. A spade grinding and crunching. Overhead, branches writhing, winding, interlacing, unwinding, scattering; tortured twinings, tossings, creakings. Wind flinging branches apart, drawing them together, whispering and whining among them. A waning, lopsided moon cutting through black clouds. A stream of pebbles and earth and the empty spade gleams clear in the moonlight, then is rammed again into the black earth. Tramping of feet. Men and horses. Squeaking of wheels.</p>
				<p>“Whoa! Ready, Jim?”</p>
				<p>“All ready.”</p>
				<p>Something falls, settles, is still. Suicides have no coffin.v“Give us the stake, Jim. Now.”</p>
				<p>Pound! Pound!</p>
				<p>“He’ll never walk. Nailed to the ground.”</p>
				<p>An ash stick pierces his heart, if it buds the roots will hold him. He is a part of the earth now, clay to clay. Overhead the branches sway, and writhe, and twist in the wind. He’ll never walk with a bullet in his heart, and an ash stick nailing him to the cold, black ground.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Six months he lay still. Six months. And the water welled up in his body, and soft blue spots chequered it. He lay still, for the ash stick held him in place. Six months! Then her face came out of a mist of green. Pink and white and frail like Dresden china, lilies-of-the-valley at her breast, puce-coloured silk sheening about her. Under the young green leaves, the horse at a foot-pace, the high yellow wheels of the chaise scarcely turning, her face, rippling like grain a-blowing, under her puce-coloured bonnet; and burning beside her, flaming within his correct blue coat and brass buttons, is someone. What has dimmed the sun? The horse steps on a rolling stone; a wind in the branches makes a moan. The little leaves tremble and shake, turn and quake, over and over, tearing their stems. There is a shower of young leaves, and a sudden-sprung gale wails in the trees.</p>
				<p>The yellow-wheeled chaise is rocking⁠—rocking, and all the branches are knocking⁠—knocking. The sun in the sky is a flat, red plate, the branches creak and grate. She screams and cowers, for the green foliage is a lowering wave surging to smother her. But she sees nothing. The stake holds firm. The body writhes, the body squirms. The blue spots widen, the flesh tears, but the stake wears well in the deep, black ground. It holds the body in the still, black ground.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Two years! The body has been in the ground two years. It is worn away; it is clay to clay. Where the heart moulders, a greenish dust, the stake is thrust. Late August it is, and night; a night flauntingly jewelled with stars, a night of shooting stars and loud insect noises. Down the road to Tilbury, silence⁠—and the slow flapping of large leaves. Down the road to Sutton, silence⁠—and the darkness of heavy-foliaged trees. Down the road to Wayfleet, silence⁠—and the whirring scrape of insects in the branches. Down the road to Edgarstown, silence⁠—and stars like stepping-stones in a pathway overhead. It is very quiet at the cross-roads, and the sign-board points the way down the four roads, endlessly points the way where nobody wishes to go.</p>
				<p>A horse is galloping, galloping up from Sutton. Shaking the wide, still leaves as he goes under them. Striking sparks with his iron shoes; silencing the katydids. Dr. Morgan riding to a child-birth over Tilbury way; riding to deliver a woman of her first-born son. One o’clock from Wayfleet bell tower, what a shower of shooting stars! And a breeze all of a sudden, jarring the big leaves and making them jerk up and down. Dr. Morgan’s hat is blown from his head, the horse swerves, and curves away from the sign-post. An oath⁠—spurs⁠—a blurring of grey mist. A quick left twist, and the gelding is snorting and racing down the Tilbury road with the wind dropping away behind him.</p>
				<p>The stake has wrenched, the stake has started, the body, flesh from flesh, has parted. But the bones hold tight, socket and ball, and clamping them down in the hard, black ground is the stake, wedged through ribs and spine. The bones may twist, and heave, and twine, but the stake holds them still in line. The breeze goes down, and the round stars shine, for the stake holds the fleshless bones in line.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Twenty years now! Twenty long years! The body has powdered itself away; it is clay to clay. It is brown earth mingled with brown earth. Only flaky bones remain, lain together so long they fit, although not one bone is knit to another. The stake is there too, rotted through, but upright still, and still piercing down between ribs and spine in a straight line.</p>
				<p>Yellow stillness is on the cross-roads, yellow stillness is on the trees. The leaves hang drooping, wan. The four roads point four yellow ways, saffron and gamboge ribbons to the gaze. A little swirl of dust blows up Tilbury road, the wind which fans it has not strength to do more; it ceases, and the dust settles down. A little whirl of wind comes up Tilbury road. It brings a sound of wheels and feet. The wind reels a moment and faints to nothing under the sign-post. Wind again, wheels and feet louder. Wind again⁠—again⁠—again. A drop of rain, flat into the dust. Drop!⁠—Drop! Thick heavy raindrops, and a shrieking wind bending the great trees and wrenching off their leaves.</p>
				<p>Under the black sky, bowed and dripping with rain, up Tilbury road, comes the procession. A funeral procession, bound for the graveyard at Wayfleet. Feet and wheels⁠—feet and wheels. And among them one who is carried.</p>
				<p>The bones in the deep, still earth shiver and pull. There is a quiver through the rotted stake. Then stake and bones fall together in a little puffing of dust.</p>
				<p>Like meshes of linked steel the rain shuts down behind the procession, now well along the Wayfleet road.</p>
				<p>He wavers like smoke in the buffeting wind. His fingers blow out like smoke, his head ripples in the gale. Under the sign-post, in the pouring rain, he stands, and watches another quavering figure drifting down the Wayfleet road. Then swiftly he streams after it. It flickers among the trees. He licks out and winds about them. Over, under, blown, contorted. Spindrift after spindrift; smoke following smoke. There is a wailing through the trees, a wailing of fear, and after it laughter⁠—laughter⁠—laughter, skirling up to the black sky. Lightning jags over the funeral procession. A heavy clap of thunder. Then darkness and rain, and the sound of feet and wheels.</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-roxbury-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Roxbury Garden</h2>
				<section id="a-roxbury-garden-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<h3>I<br/>
					Hoops</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Blue and pink sashes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Criss-cross shoes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Minna and Stella run out into the garden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To play at hoop.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Up and down the garden-paths they race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the yellow sunshine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each with a big round hoop</span>
						<br/>
						<span>White as a stripped willow-wand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Round and round turn the hoops,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their diamond whiteness cleaving the yellow sunshine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gravel crunches and squeaks beneath them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a large pebble springs them into the air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To go whirling for a foot or two</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before they touch the earth again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a series of little jumps.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Spring, Hoops!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spit out a shower of blue and white brightness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The little criss-cross shoes twinkle behind you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pink and blue sashes flutter like flags,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hoop-sticks are ready to beat you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Turn, turn, Hoops! In the yellow sunshine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Turn your stripped willow whiteness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the smooth paths.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Stella sings:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Round and round, rolls my hoop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Scarcely touching the ground,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With a swoop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And a bound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Round and round.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With a bumpety, crunching, scattering sound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Down the garden it flies;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In our eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The sun lies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">See it spin</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Out and in;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Through the paths it goes whirling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">About the beds curling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sway now to the loop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Faster, faster, my hoop.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Round you come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Up you come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Quick and straight as before.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Run, run, my hoop, run,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away from the sun.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And the great hoop bounds along the path,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leaping into the wind-bright air.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Minna sings:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Turn, hoop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Burn hoop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Twist and twine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hoop of mine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Flash along,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Leap along,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Right at the sun.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Run, hoop, run.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Faster and faster,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whirl, twirl.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wheel like fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And spin like glass;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fire’s no whiter</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Glass is no brighter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Dance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Prance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Over and over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">About and about,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the top of you under,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the bottom at top,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But never a stop.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Turn about, hoop, to the tap of my stick,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I follow behind you</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To touch and remind you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Burn and glitter, so white and quick,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Round and round, to the tap of a stick.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The hoop flies along between the flower-beds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swaying the flowers with the wind of its passing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Beside the foxglove-border roll the hoops,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the little pink and white bells shake and jingle</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up and down their tall spires;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They roll under the snow-ball bush,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the ground behind them is strewn with white petals;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They swirl round a corner,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And jar a bee out of a Canterbury bell;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They cast their shadows for an instant</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over a bed of pansies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Catch against the spurs of a columbine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Jostle the quietness from a cluster of monk’s-hood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pat! Pat! behind them come the little criss-cross shoes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the blue and pink sashes stream out in flappings of colour.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Stella sings:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Hoop, hoop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Roll along,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Faster bowl along,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hoop.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Slow, to the turning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now go!⁠—Go!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Quick!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Here’s the stick.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rat-a-tap-tap it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Pat it, flap it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fly like a bird or a yellow-backed bee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">See how soon you can reach that tree.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Here is a path that is perfectly straight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Roll along, hoop, or we shall be late.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Minna sings:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Trip about, slip about, whip about</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hoop.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wheel like a top at its quickest spin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then, dear hoop, we shall surely win.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">First to the greenhouse and then to the wall</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Circle and circle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And let the wind push you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Poke you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Brush you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And not let you fall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whirring you round like a wreath of mist.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hoopety hoop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Twist,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twist.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Tap! Tap! go the hoop-sticks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the hoops bowl along under a grape arbour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For an instant their willow whiteness is green,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pale white-green.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then they are out in the sunshine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leaving the half-formed grape clusters</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A-tremble under their big leaves.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“I will beat you, Minna,” cries Stella,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hitting her hoop smartly with her stick.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Stella, Stella, we are winning,” calls Minna,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As her hoop curves round a bed of clove-pinks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A humming-bird whizzes past Stella’s ear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And two or three yellow-and-black butterflies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flutter, startled, out of a pillar rose.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Round and round race the little girls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After their great white hoops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Suddenly Minna stops.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hoop wavers an instant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But she catches it up on her stick.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Listen, Stella!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Both the little girls are listening;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the scents of the garden rise up quietly about them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“It’s the chaise! It’s Father!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perhaps he’s brought us a book from Boston.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twinkle, twinkle, the little criss-cross shoes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up the garden path.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blue⁠—pink⁠—an instant, against the syringa hedge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the hoops, white as stripped willow-wands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lie in the grass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the grasshoppers jump back and forth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over them.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-roxbury-garden-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II<br/>
					Battledore and Shuttlecock</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The shuttlecock soars upward</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a parabola of whiteness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Turns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sinks to a perfect arc.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plat! the battledore strikes it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And it rises again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Without haste,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Winged and curving,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tracing its white flight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Against the clipped hemlock-trees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plat!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Orange and sparkling with sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rounding under the blue sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dropping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fading to grey-green</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the shadow of the coned hemlocks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Ninety-one.” “Ninety-two.” “Ninety-three.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The arms of the little girls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come up⁠—and up⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Precisely,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like mechanical toys.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The battledores beat at nothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And toss the dazzle of snow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off their parchment drums.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Ninety-four.” Plat!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Ninety-five.” Plat!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Back and forth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Goes the shuttlecock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Icicle-white,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leaping at the sharp-edged clouds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Overturning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Falling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tinctured with pink</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the upthrusting shine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Oriental poppies.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The little girls sway to the counting rhythm;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Left foot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Right foot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plat! Plat!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow heat twines round the handles of the battledores,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The parchment cracks with dryness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the shuttlecock</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swings slowly into the ice-blue sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heaving up on the warm air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like a foam-bubble on a wave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With feathers slanted and sustaining.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Higher,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until the earth turns beneath it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Poised and swinging,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all the garden flowing beneath it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Scarlet, and blue, and purple, and white⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blurred colour reflections in rippled water⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Changing⁠—streaming⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the moment that Stella takes to lift her arm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then the shuttlecock relinquishes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Descends;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the sharp blue spears of the air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thrust it to earth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Again it mounts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stepping up on the rising scents of flowers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Buoyed up and under by the shining heat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the foxgloves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the guelder-roses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the greenhouse glitter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till the shafts of cooler air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Meet it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deflect it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Reject it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past the greenhouse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past the guelder-rose bush,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past the foxgloves.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Ninety-nine,” Stella’s battledore springs to the impact.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plunk! Like the snap of a taut string.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Oh! Minna!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The shuttlecock drops zigzagedly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of orbit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hits the path,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And rolls over quite still.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dead white feathers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a weight at the end.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-roxbury-garden-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III<br/>
					Garden Games</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The tall clock is striking twelve;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the little girls stop in the hall to watch it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the big ships rocking in a half-circle</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the dial.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twelve o’clock!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down the side steps</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Go the little girls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under their big round straw hats.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Minna’s has a pink ribbon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stella’s a blue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That is the way they know which is which.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twelve o’clock!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An hour yet before dinner.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mother is busy in the still-room,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Hannah is making gingerbread.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Slowly, with lagging steps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They follow the garden-path,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crushing a leaf of box for its acrid smell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Discussing what they shall do,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And doing nothing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Stella, see that grasshopper</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Climbing up the bank!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What a jump!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Almost as long as my arm.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Run, children, run.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the grasshopper is leaping away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In half-circle curves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shuttlecock curves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the grasses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hand in hand, the little girls call to him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Grandfather, grandfather gray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me molasses, or I’ll throw you away.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The grasshopper leaps into the sunlight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Golden-green,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And is gone.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Let’s catch a bee.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Round whirl the little girls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And up the garden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two heads are thrust among the Canterbury bells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Listening,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fingers clasp and unclasp behind backs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a strain of silence.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>White bells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blue bells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hollow and reflexed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deep tunnels of blue and white dimness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cool wine-tunnels for bees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is a floundering and buzzing over Minna’s head.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Bend it down, Stella. Quick! Quick!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The wide mouth of a blossom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is pressed together in Minna’s fingers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stem flies up, jiggling its flower-bells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Minna holds the dark blue cup in her hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the bee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Imprisoned in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whirr! Buzz! Bump!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bump! Whiz! Bang!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><strong>bang</strong>!!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The blue flower tears across like paper,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a gold-black bee darts away in the sunshine.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“If we could fly, we could catch him.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sunshine is hot on Stella’s upturned face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As she stares after the bee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“We’ll follow him in a dove chariot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come on, Stella.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Run, children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the red gravel paths,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For a bee is hard to catch,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even with a chariot of doves.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Tall, still, and cowled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stand the monk’s-hoods;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Taller than the heads of the little girls.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A blossom for Minna.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A blossom for Stella.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off comes the cowl,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there is a purple-painted chariot;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off comes the forward petal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there are two little green doves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With green traces tying them to the chariot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Now we will get in, and fly right up to the clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fly, Doves, up in the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With Minna and me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After the bee.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Up one path,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down another,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Run the little girls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Holding their dove chariots in front of them;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the bee is hidden in the trumpet of a honeysuckle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With his wings folded along his back.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The dove chariots are thrown away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the little girls wander slowly through the garden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sucking the salvia tips,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And squeezing the snapdragons</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To make them gape.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I’m so hot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let’s pick a pansy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And see the little man in his bath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And play we’re he.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A royal bath-tub,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hung with purple stuffs and yellow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The great purple-yellow wings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rise up behind the little red and green man;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The purple-yellow wings fan him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He dabbles his feet in cool green.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off with the green sheath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there are two spindly legs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Heigho!” sighs Minna.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Heigho!” sighs Stella.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is not a flutter of wind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the sun is directly overhead.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Along the edge of the garden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Walk the little girls.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their hats, round and yellow like cheeses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are dangling by the ribbons.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The grass is a tumult of buttercups and daisies;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Buttercups and daisies streaming away</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up the hill.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The garden is purple, and pink, and orange, and scarlet;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The garden is hot with colours.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the meadow is only yellow, and white, and green,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cool, and long, and quiet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The little girls pick buttercups</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hold them under each other’s chins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“You’re as gold as Grandfather’s snuff-box.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’re going to be very rich, Minna.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Oh-o-o! Then I’ll ask my husband to give me a pair of garnet earrings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Just like Aunt Nancy’s.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I wonder if he will.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know. We’ll tell fortunes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That’s what we’ll do.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plump down in the meadow grass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stella and Minna,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With their round yellow hats,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like cheeses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beside them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Daisy petals.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“One I love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Two I love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Three I love I say⁠ ⁠…”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ground is peppered with daisy petals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the little girls nibble the golden centres,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And play it is cake.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A bell rings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dinner-time;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And after dinner there are lessons.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="1777" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">1777</h2>
				<section id="1777-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I<br/>
					The Trumpet-Vine Arbour</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The throats of the little red trumpet-flowers are wide open,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the clangour of brass beats against the hot sunlight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They bray and blare at the burning sky.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Red! Red! Coarse notes of red,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trumpeted at the blue sky.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In long streaks of sound, molten metal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vine declares itself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clang!⁠—from its red and yellow trumpets.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clang!⁠—from its long, nasal trumpets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Splitting the sunlight into ribbons, tattered and shot with noise.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I sit in the cool arbour, in a green-and-gold twilight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is very still, for I cannot hear the trumpets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I only know that they are red and open,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that the sun above the arbour shakes with heat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My quill is newly mended,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And makes fine-drawn lines with its point.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down the long, white paper it makes little lines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Just lines⁠—up⁠—down⁠—criss-cross.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My heart is strained out at the pin-point of my quill;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is thin and writhing like the marks of the pen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My hand marches to a squeaky tune,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It marches down the paper to a squealing of fifes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My pen and the trumpet-flowers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Washington’s armies away over the smoke-tree to the Southwest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Yankee Doodle,” my Darling! It is you against the British,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marching in your ragged shoes to batter down King George.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What have you got in your hat? Not a feather, I wager.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Just a hay-straw, for it is the harvest you are fighting for.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hay in your hat, and the whites of their eyes for a target!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like Bunker Hill, two years ago, when I watched all day from the house-top</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through Father’s spy-glass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The red city, and the blue, bright water,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And puffs of smoke which you made.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twenty miles away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Round by Cambridge, or over the Neck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the smoke was white⁠—white!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To-day the trumpet-flowers are red⁠—red⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I cannot see you fighting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But old Mr. Dimond has fled to Canada,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Myra sings “Yankee Doodle” at her milking.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The red throats of the trumpets bray and clang in the sunshine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the smoke-tree puffs dun blossoms into the blue air.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="1777-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II<br/>
					The City of Falling Leaves</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Leaves fall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brown leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow leaves streaked with brown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They fall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flutter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fall again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The brown leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the streaked yellow leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loosen on their branches</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And drift slowly downwards.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One, two, three,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One, two, five.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All Venice is a falling of Autumn leaves⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And yellow streaked with brown.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“That sonnet, Abate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beautiful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am quite exhausted by it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your phrases turn about my heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And stifle me to swooning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Open the window, I beg.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lord! What a strumming of fiddles and mandolins!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis really a shame to stop indoors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Call my maid, or I will make you lace me yourself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fie, how hot it is, not a breath of air!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See how straight the leaves are falling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marianna, I will have the yellow satin caught up with silver fringe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It peeps out delightfully from under a mantle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Am I well painted to-day, ‘caro Abate mio’?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You will be proud of me at the ‘Ridotto’, hey?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Proud of being ‘Cavalier Servente’ to such a lady?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Can you doubt it, ‘Bellissima Contessa’?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A pinch more rouge on the right cheek,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Venus herself shines less⁠ ⁠…”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“You bore me, Abate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I vow I must change you!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A letter, Achmet?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Run and look out of the window, Abate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will read my letter in peace.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The little black slave with the yellow satin turban</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gazes at his mistress with strained eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His yellow turban and black skin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are gorgeous⁠—barbaric.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The yellow satin dress with its silver flashings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lies on a chair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beside a black mantle and a black mask.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow and black,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gorgeous⁠—barbaric.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lady reads her letter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the leaves drift slowly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past the long windows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“How silly you look, my dear Abate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With that great brown leaf in your wig.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pluck it off, I beg you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or I shall die of laughing.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A yellow wall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aflare in the sunlight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chequered with shadows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shadows of vine leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shadows of masks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Masks coming, printing themselves for an instant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then passing on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>More masks always replacing them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Masks with tricorns and rapiers sticking out behind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pursuing masks with plumes and high heels,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sunlight shining under their insteps.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One, two,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One, two, three,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is a thronging of shadows on the hot wall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Filigreed at the top with moving leaves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow sunlight and black shadows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow and black,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gorgeous⁠—barbaric.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two masks stand together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the shadow of a leaf falls through them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marking the wall where they are not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From hat-tip to shoulder-tip,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From elbow to sword-hilt,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The leaf falls.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The shadows mingle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blur together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slide along the wall and disappear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gold of mosaics and candles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And night blackness lurking in the ceiling beams.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Saint Mark’s glitters with flames and reflections.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A cloak brushes aside,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the yellow of satin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Licks out over the coloured inlays of the pavement.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under the gold crucifixes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is a meeting of hands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Reaching from black mantles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sighing embraces, bold investigations,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hide in confessionals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sheltered by the shuffling of feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gorgeous⁠—barbaric</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In its mail of jewels and gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Saint Mark’s looks down at the swarm of black masks;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And outside in the palace gardens brown leaves fall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flutter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And yellow streaked with brown.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Blue-black, the sky over Venice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a pricking of yellow stars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is no moon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the waves push darkly against the prow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the gondola,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Coming from Malamocco</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And streaming toward Venice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is black under the gondola hood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the yellow of a satin dress</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Glares out like the eye of a watching tiger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow compassed about with darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yellow and black,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gorgeous⁠—barbaric.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The boatman sings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is Tasso that he sings;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lovers seek each other beneath their mantles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the gondola drifts over the lagoon, aslant to the coming dawn.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But at Malamocco in front,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Venice behind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fall the leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And yellow streaked with brown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They fall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flutter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fall.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
