<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Overgrown Pasture</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-overgrown-pasture" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="reaping" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Reaping</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You want to know what’s the matter with me, do yer?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My! ain’t men blinder’n moles?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ain’t nothin’ new, be sure o’ that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, ef you’d had eyes you’d ha’ seed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me changin’ under your very nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each day a little diff’rent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you never see nothin’, you don’t.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t touch me, Jake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t you dars’t to touch me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t in no humour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s what’s come over me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jest a change clear through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lay still, an’ I’ll tell yer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve had it on my mind to tell yer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer some time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s a strain livin’ a lie from mornin’ till night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I’m goin’ to put an end to it right now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ don’t make any mistake about one thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I married yer I loved yer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, your voice ’ud make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me go hot and cold all over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ your kisses most stopped my heart from beatin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lord! I was a silly fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that’s the way ’twas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I married yer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ thought Heav’n was comin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To set on the door-step.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heav’n didn’t do no settin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though the first year warn’t so bad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baby’s fever threw you off some, I guess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ then I took her death real hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ a mopey wife kind o’ disgusts a man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t blamin’ yer exactly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that’s how ’twas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do lay quiet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know I’m slow, but it’s harder to say ‘n I thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There come a time when I got to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More wife agin than mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mother part was sort of a waste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When we didn’t have no other child.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you’d got used ter lots o’ things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ you was all took up with the farm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many’s the time I’ve laid awake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watchin’ the moon go clear through the elm-tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out o’ sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d foller yer around like a dog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ set in the chair you’d be’n settin’ in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jest to feel its arms around me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So long’s I didn’t have yours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It preyed on me, I guess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Longin’ and longin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While you was busy all day, and snorin’ all night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, I know you’re wide awake now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now ain’t then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I guess you’ll think diff’rent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I’m done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you mind the day you went to Hadrock?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I didn’t want to stay home for reasons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you said someone ‘d have to be here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Cause Elmer was comin’ to see t’ th’ telephone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ you never see why I was so set on goin’ with yer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our married life hadn’t be’n any great shakes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still marriage is marriage, an’ I was raised God-fearin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, Lord, you didn’t notice nothin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ Elmer hangin’ around all Winter!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas a lovely mornin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The apple-trees was jest elegant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their blossoms all flared out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ there warn’t a cloud in the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You went, you wouldn’t pay no ‘tention to what I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I heard the Ford chuggin’ for most a mile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air was so still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Elmer come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s no use your frettin’, Jake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll tell you all about it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know what I’m doin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ what’s worse, I know what I done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elmer fixed th’ telephone in about two minits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ he didn’t seem in no hurry to go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I don’t know as I wanted him to go either,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was awful mad at your not takin’ me with yer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I was tired o’ wishin’ and wishin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ gittin’ no comfort.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guess it ain’t necessary to tell yer all the things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stayed to dinner,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ he helped me do the dishes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ he said a home was a fine thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I said dishes warn’t a home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor yet the room they’re in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said a lot o’ things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I fended him off at first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he got talkin’ all around me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clost up to the things I’d be’n thinkin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s the use o’ me goin’ on, Jake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He got all he wanted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I give it to him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ what’s more, I’m glad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t dead, anyway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ somebody thinks I’m somethin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keep away, Jake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can kill me to-morrer if you want to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’m goin’ to have my say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Funny thing! Guess I ain’t made to hold a man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elmer ain’t be’n here for mor’n two months.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t want to pretend nothin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mebbe if he’d be’n lately</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shouldn’t have told yer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll go away in the mornin’, o’ course.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What you want the light fer?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t look no diff’rent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ain’t the moon bright enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To look at a woman that’s deceived yer by?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t, Jake, don’t, you can’t love me now!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ain’t a question of forgiveness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why! I’d be thinkin’ o’ Elmer ev’ry minute;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ain’t decent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, my God! It ain’t decent any more either way!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="off-the-turnpike" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Off the Turnpike</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Good ev’nin’, Mis’ Priest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I jest stepped in to tell you Good-bye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, it’s all over.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my things is packed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ every last one o’ them boxes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is on Bradley’s team</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bein’ hauled over to th’ depot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, I ain’t goin’ back agin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m stoppin’ over to French’s fer to-night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And goin’ down first train in th’ mornin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, it do seem kinder queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to be goin’ to see Cherry’s Orchard no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Land Sakes! When a change’s comin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, I al’ays say it can’t come too quick.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, that’s real kind o’ you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your doughnuts is always so tasty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, I’m goin’ to Chicago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To my niece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s married to a fine man, hardware business,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ doin’ real well, she tells me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lizzie’s be’n at me to go out ther for the longest while.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She ain’t got no kith nor kin to Chicago, you know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s rented me a real nice little flat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Same house as hers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I’m goin’ to try that city livin’ folks say’s so pleasant.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, yes, he was real generous,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paid me a sight o’ money fer the Orchard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I told him ’twouldn’t yield nothin’ but stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he ain’t farmin’ it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lor’, no, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s jest took it to set and look at the view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mebbe he wouldn’t be so stuck on the view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ef he’d seed it every mornin’ and night for forty year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Same’s as I have.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dessay it’s pretty enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it’s so pressed into me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I c’n see’t with my eyes shut.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No. I ain’t cold, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t shut th’ door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll be all right in a minit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I ain’t a mite sorry to leave that view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, mebbe ’tis queer to feel so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ mebbe ‘taint.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My! But that tea’s revivin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old things ain’t always pleasant things, Mis’ Priest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, no, I don’t cal’late on comin’ back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s why I’d ruther be to Chicago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boston’s too near.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ain’t cold, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s jest my thoughts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t sick, only⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mis’ Priest, ef you’ve nothin’ ter take yer time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ have a mind to listen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther’s somethin’ I’d like ter speak about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t never mentioned it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’d like to tell yer ‘fore I go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would you mind lowerin’ them shades,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall twilight’s awful grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ that fire’s real cosy with the shades drawed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I guess folks about here think I’ve be’n dret’ful onsociable.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You needn’t say ‘taint so, ‘cause I know diff’rent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ what’s more, it’s true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, the reason is I’ve be’n scared out o’ my life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scared ev’ry minit o’ th’ time, fer eight year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eight mortal year ’tis, come next June.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas on the eighteenth o’ June,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Six months after I’d buried my husband,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That somethin’ happened ter me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mebbe you’ll mind that afore that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was a cheery body.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiram was too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Al’ays liked to ask a neighbor in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ ev’n when he died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barrin’ low sperrits, I warn’t averse to seein’ nobody.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that eighteenth o’ June changed ev’rythin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was doin’ most o’ th’ farmwork myself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With jest a hired boy, Clarence King, ’twas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comin’ in fer an hour or two.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, that eighteenth o’ June</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was goin’ round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lockin’ up and seein’ to things ‘fore I went to bed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was jest steppin’ out t’ th’ barn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goin’ round outside ‘stead o’ through the shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Cause there was such a sight o’ moonlight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somehow or another I thought ’twould be pretty outdoors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got settled for pretty things that night, I guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t stuck on ’em no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, them laylock bushes side o’ th’ house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was real lovely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glitt’rin’ and shakin’ in the moonlight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the smell o’ them rose right up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ most took my breath away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The colour o’ the spikes was all faded out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They never keep their colour when the moon’s on ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the smell fair ‘toxicated me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was al’ays partial to a sweet scent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I went close up t’ th’ bushes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So’s to put my face right into a flower.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mis’ Priest, jest’s I got breathin’ in that laylock bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, layin’ right at my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man’s hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was as white’s the side o’ th’ house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sparklin’ like that lum’nous paint they put on gate-posts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I screamed right out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I couldn’t help it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I could hear my scream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goin’ over an’ over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that echo be’ind th’ barn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hearin’ it agin an’ agin like that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scared me so, I dar’sn’t scream any more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I jest stood ther,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looked at that hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought the echo’d begin to hammer like my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it didn’t.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was only th’ wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sighin’ through the laylock leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ slappin’ ’em up agin the house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I guess I looked at that hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most ten minits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ it never moved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jest lay there white as white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After a while I got to thinkin’ that o’ course</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas some drunken tramp over from Redfield.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That calmed me some,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I commenced to think I’d better git him out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From under them laylocks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I planned to drag him in t’ th’ barn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ lock him in ther till Clarence come in th’ mornin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got so mad thinkin’ o’ that all-fired brazen tramp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asleep in my laylocks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I jest stooped down and grabbed th’ hand and give it an awful pull.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I bumped right down settin’ on the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mis’ Priest, ther warn’t no body come with the hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, it ain’t cold, it’s jest that I can’t abear thinkin’ of it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ev’n now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll take a sip o’ tea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thank you, Mis’ Priest, that’s better.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d ruther finish now I’ve begun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thank you, jest the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dropped the hand’s ef it’d be’n red hot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Stead o’ ice cold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer a minit or two I jest laid on that grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pantin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I up and run to them laylocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ pulled ’em every which way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True es I’m settin’ here, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther warn’t nothin’ ther.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I peeked an’ pryed all about ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ther warn’t no man ther</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neither livin’ nor dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the hand was ther all right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upside down, the way I’d dropped it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glist’nin’ fit to dazzle yer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know how I done it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I don’t know why I done it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I wanted to git that dret’ful hand out o’ sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got in t’ th’ barn, somehow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ felt roun’ till I got a spade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I couldn’t stop fer a lantern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, the moonlight was bright enough in all conscience.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I scooped that awful thing up in th’ spade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had a sight o’ trouble doin’ it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It slid off, and tipped over, and I couldn’t bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ev’n to touch it with my foot to prop it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I done it somehow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I carried it off be’ind the barn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clost to an old apple-tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you couldn’t see from the house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I buried it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good an’ deep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I don’t rec’lect nothin’ more o’ that night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clarence woke me up in th’ mornin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hollerin’ fer me to come down and set th’ milk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he’d gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stole roun’ to the apple-tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seed the earth all new turned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I left it in my hurry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I did a heap o’ gardenin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mornin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I couldn’t cut no big sods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fear Clarence would notice and ask me what I wanted ’em fer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I got teeny bits o’ turf here and ther,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one couldn’t tell ther’d be’n any diggin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I got through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They was awful days after that, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I used ter go every mornin’ and poke about them bushes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ up and down the fence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ter find the body that hand come off of.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I couldn’t never find nothin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d lay awake nights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hearin’ them laylocks blowin’ and whiskin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last I had Clarence cut ’em down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ make a big bonfire of ’em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I told him the smell made me sick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ that warn’t no lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t abear the smell on ’em now;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ no wonder, es you say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fretted somethin’ awful ‘bout that hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wondered, could it be Hiram’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But folks don’t rob graveyards hereabouts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, Hiram’s hands warn’t that awful, starin’ white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I give up seein’ people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was afeared I’d say somethin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know what folks thought o’ me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better’n I do, I dessay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But mebbe now you’ll see I couldn’t do nothin’ diff’rent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I stuck it out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I warn’t goin’ to be downed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By no loose hand, no matter how it come ther</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that ain’t the worst, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not by a long ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two year ago, Mr. Densmore made me an offer for Cherry’s Orchard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I’d got used to th’ thought o’ bein’ sort o’ blighted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I warn’t scared no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived down my fear, I guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d kinder got used to th’ thought o’ that awful night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I didn’t mope much about it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only I never went out o’ doors by moonlight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stuck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, when Mr. Densmore’s offer come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I started thinkin’ ‘bout the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ all the things that had gone on ther.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinks I, I guess I’ll go and see where I put the hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was foolhardy with the long time that had gone by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know’d the place real well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer I’d put it right in between two o’ the apple roots.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know what possessed me, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I kinder wanted to know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the hand had been flesh and bone, anyway.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It had sorter bothered me, thinkin’ I might ha’ imagined it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took a mornin’ when the sun was real pleasant and warm;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guessed I wouldn’t jump for a few old bones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I did jump, somethin’ wicked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther warn’t no bones!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther warn’t nothin’!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not ev’n the gold ring I’d minded bein’ on the little finger.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know ef ther ever was anythin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve worried myself sick over it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I be’n diggin’ and diggin’ day in and day out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Clarence ketched me at it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, I know’d real well what you all thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I ain’t sayin’ you’re not right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I ain’t goin’ to end in no county ‘sylum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I c’n help it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shiv’rin’ fits come on me sudden like.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know ’em, don’t you trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve fretted considerable about the ‘sylum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guess I be’n frettin’ all the time I ain’t be’n diggin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But anyhow I can’t dig to Chicago, can I?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thank you, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m better now. I only dropped in in passin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll jest be steppin’ along down to French’s.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, I won’t be seein’ nobody in the mornin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s a pretty early start.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t you stand ther, Mis’ Priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind’ll blow yer lamp out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I c’n see easy, I got aholt o’ the gate now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t a mite tired, thank you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good-night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-grocery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Grocery</h2>
				<p>
					<span>“Hullo, Alice!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hullo, Leon!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Say, Alice, gi’ me a couple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’ them two for five cigars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will yer?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Where’s your nickel?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My! Ain’t you close!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can’t trust a feller, can yer.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Trust you! Why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What you owe this store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would set you up in business.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t think why Father ‘lows it.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Yer Father’s a sight more neighbourly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than you be. That’s a fact.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, he knows I got a vote.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A vote! Oh, yes, you got a vote!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lot o’ good the Senate’ll be to Father</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all his bank account</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has run away in credits.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s your cigars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you can relish smokin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all you owe us standin’.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I dunno as that makes ’em taste any diff’rent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You ain’t fair to me, Alice, ‘deed you ain’t.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I work when anythin’s doin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll get a carpenterin’ job next Summer sure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cleve was tellin’ me to-day he’d take me on come Spring.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Come Spring, and this December!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve no patience with you, Leon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shilly-shallyin’ the way you do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, lift over them crates o’ oranges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wanter fix ’em in the winder.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It riles yer, don’t it, me not havin’ work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You pepper up about it somethin’ good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You pick an’ pick, and that don’t help a mite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Say, Alice, do come in out o’ that winder.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Th’ oranges c’n wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I don’t like talkin’ to yer back.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Don’t you! Well, you’d better make the best o’ what you can git.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maybe you won’t have my back to talk to soon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They look good in pyramids with the ‘lectric light on ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t they?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now hand me them bananas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I’ll string ’em right acrost.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What do yer mean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Bout me not havin’ you to talk to?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are yer springin’ somethin’ on me?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I don’t know ‘bout springin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I’m tellin’ you right out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m goin’ away, that’s all.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Where? Why?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What yer mean⁠—goin’ away?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve took a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down to Boston, in a candy store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the holidays.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Good Land, Alice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What in the Heavens fer!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To earn some money,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to git away from here, I guess.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Ain’t yer Father got enough?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t he give yer proper pocket-money?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He’d have a plenty, if you folks paid him.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He’s rich I tell yer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never figured he’d be close with you.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, he ain’t. Not close.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ain’t why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I must git away from here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must! I must!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You got a lot o’ reason in yer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How long d’ you cal’late</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll be gone?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Maybe for always.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What ails yer, Alice?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Talkin’ wild like that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ain’t you an’ me goin’ to be married</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some day.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Some day! Some day!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guess the sun’ll never rise on some day.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“So that’s the trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Same old story.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Cause I ain’t got the cash to settle right now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know I love yer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I’ll marry yer as soon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I c’n raise the money.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ve said that any time these five year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you don’t do nothin’.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Wot could I do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther ain’t no work here Winters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not fer a carpenter, ther ain’t.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I guess you warn’t born a carpenter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther’s ice-cuttin’ a plenty.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I got a dret’ful tender throat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dr. Smiles he told me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mustn’t resk ice-cuttin’.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why haven’t you gone to Boston,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hunted up a job?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Have yer forgot the time I went expressin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the American office, down ther?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And come back two weeks later!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, I ain’t.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You didn’t want I should git hurted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did yer?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m a sight too light fer all that liftin’ work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My back was commencin’ to strain, as ’twas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ef I was like yer brother now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d ha’ be’n down to the city long ago.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’m too clumsy fer a dancer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t got Arthur’s luck.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Do you call it luck to be a disgrace to your folks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And git locked up in jail!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, come now, Alice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Disgrace’ is a mite strong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, the jail was a joke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Art’s all right.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“All right!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All right to dance, and smirk, and lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a livin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then in the end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lead a silly girl to give you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What warn’t hers to give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By pretendin’ you’d marry her⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she a pupil.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He’d ha’ married her right enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her folks was millionaires.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Yes, he’d ha’ married her!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thank God, they saved her that.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Art’s a fine feller.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wish I had his luck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swellin’ round in Hart, Schaffner &amp; Marx fancy suits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And eatin’ in rest’rants.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But somebody’s got to stick to the old place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Else Foxfield’d have to shut up shop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hey, Alice?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You admire him!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You admire Arthur!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d be like him only you can’t dance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, Shame! Shame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’ve been like that silly girl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fooled with your promises,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I give you all I had.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew it, oh, I knew it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I wanted to git away ‘fore I proved it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve shamed me through and through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why couldn’t you hold your tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spared me seein’ you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you really are.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What the Devil’s the row?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I only said Art was lucky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What you spitfirin’ at me fer?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ferget it, Alice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ve had good times, ain’t we?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll see Cleve ‘bout that job agin to-morrer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we’ll be married ‘fore hayin’ time.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It’s like you to remind me o’ hayin’ time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve good cause to love it, ain’t I?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many’s the night I’ve hid my face in the dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To shut out thinkin’!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why, that ain’t nothin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You ain’t be’n half so kind to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As lots o’ fellers’ girls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gi’ me a kiss, Dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let’s make up.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Make up!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You poor fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you suppose I care a ten cent piece</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve killed yourself for me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done it out o’ your own mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve took away my home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hate the sight o’ the place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re all over it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every stick an’ stone means you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I hate ’em all.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Alice, I say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t go on like that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t marry yer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boardin’ in one room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’ll see Cleve to-morrer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll make him⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, you fool!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You terrible fool!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Alice, don’t go yit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wait a minit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll see Cleve⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You terrible fool!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Alice, don’t go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alice⁠—” (Door slams)</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="number-3-on-the-docket" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Number 3 on the Docket</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The lawyer, are you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well! I ain’t got nothin’ to say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothin’!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I told the perlice I hadn’t nothin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They know’d real well ’twas me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther warn’t no supposin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ketchin’ me in the woods as they did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ me in my house dress.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Folks don’t walk miles an’ miles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the drifted snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With no hat nor wrap on ’em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ef everythin’s all right, I guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All right? Ha! Ha! Ha!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothin’ warn’t right with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, Lord! Why did I do it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why ain’t it yesterday, and Ed here agin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many’s the time I’ve set up with him nights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he had cramps, or rheumatizm, or somethin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I used ter nurse him same’s ef he was a baby.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wouldn’t hurt him, I love him!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t you dare to say I killed him. ‘Twarn’t me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somethin’ got aholt o’ me. I couldn’t help it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, what shall I do! What shall I do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, Sir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, Sir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I beg your pardon, I⁠—I⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, I’m a wicked woman!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I’m desolate, desolate!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why warn’t I struck dead or paralyzed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afore my hands done it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, my God, what shall I do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, Sir, ther ain’t no extenuatin’ circumstances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I don’t want none.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I want a bolt o’ lightnin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To strike me dead right now!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, I’ll tell yer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it won’t make no diff’rence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothin’ will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, I killed him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why do yer make me say it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s cruel! Cruel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I killed him because o’ th’ silence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long, long silence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That watched all around me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he wouldn’t break it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tried to make him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time an’ agin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he was terrible taciturn, Ed was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He never spoke ’cept when he had to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ then he’d only say “yes” and “no”.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can’t even guess what that silence was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d hear it whisperin’ in my ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I got frightened, ’twas so thick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ al’ays comin’ back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ef Ed would ha’ talked sometimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It would ha’ driven it away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he never would.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He didn’t hear it same as I did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You see, Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our farm was off’n the main road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set away back under the mountain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the village was seven mile off,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Measurin’ after you’d got out o’ our lane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We didn’t have no hired man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Cept in hayin’ time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ Dane’s place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was the nearest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was clear way ‘tother side the mountain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They used Marley post-office</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ ours was Benton.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther was a cart-track took yer to Dane’s in Summer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ it warn’t above two mile that way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it warn’t never broke out Winters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I used to dread the Winters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seem’s ef I couldn’t abear to see the golden-rod bloomin’;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Winter’d come so quick after that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You don’t know what snow’s like when yer with it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day in an’ day out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed would be out all day loggin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I set at home and look at the snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Layin’ over everythin’;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ’ud dazzle me blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till it warn’t white any more, but black as ink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the quiet ’ud commence rushin’ past my ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I most went mad listenin’ to it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many’s the time I’ve dropped a pan on the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jest to hear it clatter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was most frantic when dinner-time come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ Ed was back from the woods.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d ha’ give my soul to hear him speak.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he’d never say a word till I asked him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did he like the raised biscuits or whatever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ then sometimes he’d jest nod his answer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he’d go out agin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I’d watch him from the kitchin winder.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed the woods come marchin’ out to meet him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the trees ’ud press round him an’ hustle him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got so I was scared o’ th’ trees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought they come nearer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every day a little nearer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Closin’ up round the house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never went in t’ th’ woods Winters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though in Summer I liked ’em well enough.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It warn’t so bad when my little boy was with us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He used to go sleddin’ and skatin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ every day his father fetched him to school in the pung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ brought him back agin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We scraped an’ scraped fer Neddy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We wanted him to have a education.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We sent him to High School,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ then he went up to Boston to Technology.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was a minin’ engineer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ doin’ real well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A credit to his bringin’ up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But his very first position ther was an explosion in the mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’m glad! I’m glad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He ain’t here to see me now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neddy! Neddy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m your mother still, Neddy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t turn from me like that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t abear it. I can’t! I can’t!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What did you say?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, yes, Sir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m very sorry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know what I’m sayin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not till after Neddy died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas the next Winter the silence come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t remember noticin’ it afore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was five year ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ it’s been gittin’ worse an’ worse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I asked Ed to put in a telephone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought ef I felt the whisperin’ comin’ on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could ring up some o’ th’ folks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Ed wouldn’t hear of it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said we’d paid so much for Neddy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We couldn’t hardly git along as ’twas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ he never understood me wantin’ to talk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, this year was worse’n all the others;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We had a terrible spell o’ stormy weather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the snow lay so thick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You couldn’t see the fences even.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out o’ doors was as flat as the palm o’ my hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ther warn’t a hump or a holler</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer as you could see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was so quiet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snappin’ o’ the branches back in the wood-lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sounded like pistol shots.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed was out all day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Same as usual.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ it seemed he talked less’n ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He didn’t even say ‘Good-mornin”, once or twice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ jest nodded or shook his head when I asked him things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Monday he said he’d got to go over to Benton</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer some oats.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d oughter ha’ gone with him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ’twas washin’ day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I was afeared the fine weather’d break,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I couldn’t do my dryin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my life I’d done my work punctual,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I couldn’t fix my conscience</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To go junketin’ on a washin’-day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t tell you what that day was to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It dragged an’ dragged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer ther warn’t no Ed ter break it in the middle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer dinner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every time I stopped stirrin’ the water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heerd the whisperin’ all about me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stopped oftener’n I should</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see ef ’twas still ther,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ it al’ays was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ gittin’ louder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed ter me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once I threw up the winder to feel the wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That seemed most alive somehow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the woods looked so kind of menacin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I closed it quick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ started to mangle’s hard’s I could,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The squeakin’ was comfortin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, Ed come home ‘bout four.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seen him down the road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I run out through the shed inter th’ barn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet him quicker.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hollered out, ‘Hullo!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he didn’t say nothin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He jest drove right in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ climbed out o’ th’ sleigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ commenced unharnessin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I asked him a heap o’ questions;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who he’d seed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ what he’d done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once in a while he’d nod or shake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But most o’ th’ time he didn’t do nothin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas gittin’ dark then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I was in a state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the loneliness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ Ed payin’ no attention</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like somethin’ warn’t livin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All of a sudden it come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know what,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I jest couldn’t stand no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It didn’t seem ‘s though that was Ed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ it didn’t seem as though I was me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had to break a way out somehow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somethin’ was closin’ in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I was stiflin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed’s loggin’ axe was ther,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I took it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, my God!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t see nothin’ else afore me all the time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I run out inter th’ woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed as ef they was pullin’ me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ all the time I was wadin’ through the snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seed Ed in front of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I’d laid him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I see him now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There! There!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What you holdin’ me fer?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I want ter go to Ed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s bleedin’.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stop holdin’ me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got to go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m comin’, Ed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll be ther in a minit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, I’m so tired!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">(Faints)</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
