<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>War Pictures</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="war-pictures" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="the-allies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">The Allies</h2>
					<h3>August 14th, 1914</h3>
				</header>
				<p>Into the brazen, burnished sky, the cry hurls itself. The zigzagging cry of hoarse throats, it floats against the hard winds, and binds the head of the serpent to its tail, the long snail-slow serpent of marching men. Men weighed down with rifles and knapsacks, and parching with war. The cry jars and splits against the brazen, burnished sky.</p>
				<p>This is the war of wars, and the cause? Has this writhing worm of men a cause?</p>
				<p>Crackling against the polished sky is an eagle with a sword. The eagle is red and its head is flame.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>In the shoulder of the worm is a teacher.</p>
				<p>His tongue laps the war-sucked air in drought, but he yells defiance at the red-eyed eagle, and in his ears are the bells of new philosophies, and their tinkling drowns the sputter of the burning sword. He shrieks, “God damn you! When you are broken, the word will strike out new shoots.”</p>
				<p>His boots are tight, the sun is hot, and he may be shot, but he is in the shoulder of the worm.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>A dust speck in the worm’s belly is a poet.</p>
				<p>He laughs at the flaring eagle and makes a long nose with his fingers. He will fight for smooth, white sheets of paper, and uncurdled ink. The sputtering sword cannot make him blink, and his thoughts are wet and rippling. They cool his heart.</p>
				<p>He will tear the eagle out of the sky and give the earth tranquillity, and loveliness printed on white paper.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The eye of the serpent is an owner of mills.</p>
				<p>He looks at the glaring sword which has snapped his machinery and struck away his men.</p>
				<p>But it will all come again, when the sword is broken to a million dying stars, and there are no more wars.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Bankers, butchers, shop-keepers, painters, farmers⁠—men, sway and sweat. They will fight for the earth, for the increase of the slow, sure roots of peace, for the release of hidden forces. They jibe at the eagle and his scorching sword.</p>
				<p>One! Two!⁠—One! Two!⁠—clump the heavy boots. The cry hurtles against the sky.</p>
				<p>Each man pulls his belt a little tighter, and shifts his gun to make it lighter. Each man thinks of a woman, and slaps out a curse at the eagle. The sword jumps in the hot sky, and the worm crawls on to the battle, stubbornly.</p>
				<p>This is the war of wars, from eye to tail the serpent has one cause:</p>
				<p><strong>peace</strong>!</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-bombardment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Bombardment</h2>
				<p>Slowly, without force, the rain drops into the city. It stops a moment on the carved head of Saint John, then slides on again, slipping and trickling over his stone cloak. It splashes from the lead conduit of a gargoyle, and falls from it in turmoil on the stones in the Cathedral square. Where are the people, and why does the fretted steeple sweep about in the sky? Boom! The sound swings against the rain. Boom, again! After it, only water rushing in the gutters, and the turmoil from the spout of the gargoyle. Silence. Ripples and mutters. Boom!</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The room is damp, but warm. Little flashes swarm about from the firelight. The lustres of the chandelier are bright, and clusters of rubies leap in the bohemian glasses on the ‘etagere’. Her hands are restless, but the white masses of her hair are quite still. Boom! Will it never cease to torture, this iteration! Boom! The vibration shatters a glass on the ‘etagere’. It lies there, formless and glowing, with all its crimson gleams shot out of pattern, spilled, flowing red, blood-red. A thin bell-note pricks through the silence. A door creaks. The old lady speaks: “Victor, clear away that broken glass.” “Alas! Madame, the bohemian glass!” “Yes, Victor, one hundred years ago my father brought it⁠—” Boom! The room shakes, the servitor quakes. Another goblet shivers and breaks. Boom!</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>It rustles at the window-pane, the smooth, streaming rain, and he is shut within its clash and murmur. Inside is his candle, his table, his ink, his pen, and his dreams. He is thinking, and the walls are pierced with beams of sunshine, slipping through young green. A fountain tosses itself up at the blue sky, and through the spattered water in the basin he can see copper carp, lazily floating among cold leaves. A wind-harp in a cedar-tree grieves and whispers, and words blow into his brain, bubbled, iridescent, shooting up like flowers of fire, higher and higher. Boom! The flame-flowers snap on their slender stems. The fountain rears up in long broken spears of dishevelled water and flattens into the earth. Boom! And there is only the room, the table, the candle, and the sliding rain. Again, Boom!⁠—Boom!⁠—Boom! He stuffs his fingers into his ears. He sees corpses, and cries out in fright. Boom! It is night, and they are shelling the city! Boom! Boom!</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>A child wakes and is afraid, and weeps in the darkness. What has made the bed shake? “Mother, where are you? I am awake.” “Hush, my Darling, I am here.” “But, Mother, something so queer happened, the room shook.” Boom! “Oh! What is it? What is the matter?” Boom! “Where is Father? I am so afraid.” Boom! The child sobs and shrieks. The house trembles and creaks. Boom!</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Retorts, globes, tubes, and phials lie shattered. All his trials oozing across the floor. The life that was his choosing, lonely, urgent, goaded by a hope, all gone. A weary man in a ruined laboratory, that is his story. Boom! Gloom and ignorance, and the jig of drunken brutes. Diseases like snakes crawling over the earth, leaving trails of slime. Wails from people burying their dead. Through the window, he can see the rocking steeple. A ball of fire falls on the lead of the roof, and the sky tears apart on a spike of flame. Up the spire, behind the lacings of stone, zigzagging in and out of the carved tracings, squirms the fire. It spouts like yellow wheat from the gargoyles, coils round the head of Saint John, and aureoles him in light. It leaps into the night and hisses against the rain. The Cathedral is a burning stain on the white, wet night.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Boom! The Cathedral is a torch, and the houses next to it begin to scorch. Boom! The bohemian glass on the ‘etagere’ is no longer there. Boom! A stalk of flame sways against the red damask curtains. The old lady cannot walk. She watches the creeping stalk and counts. Boom!⁠—Boom!⁠—Boom!</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The poet rushes into the street, and the rain wraps him in a sheet of silver. But it is threaded with gold and powdered with scarlet beads. The city burns. Quivering, spearing, thrusting, lapping, streaming, run the flames. Over roofs, and walls, and shops, and stalls. Smearing its gold on the sky, the fire dances, lances itself through the doors, and lisps and chuckles along the floors.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The child wakes again and screams at the yellow petalled flower flickering at the window. The little red lips of flame creep along the ceiling beams.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The old man sits among his broken experiments and looks at the burning Cathedral. Now the streets are swarming with people. They seek shelter and crowd into the cellars. They shout and call, and over all, slowly and without force, the rain drops into the city. Boom! And the steeple crashes down among the people. Boom! Boom, again! The water rushes along the gutters. The fire roars and mutters. Boom!</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lead-soldiers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lead Soldiers</h2>
				<p>The nursery fire burns brightly, crackling in cheerful little explosions and trails of sparks up the back of the chimney. Miniature rockets peppering the black bricks with golden stars, as though a gala flamed a night of victorious wars.</p>
				<p>The nodding mandarin on the bookcase moves his head forward and back, slowly, and looks into the air with his blue-green eyes. He stares into the air and nods⁠—forward and back. The red rose in his hand is a crimson splash on his yellow coat. Forward and back, and his blue-green eyes stare into the air, and he nods⁠—nods.</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Tommy’s soldiers march to battle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Trumpets flare and snare-drums rattle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bayonets flash, and sabres glance⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How the horses snort and prance!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cannon drawn up in a line</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Glitter in the dizzy shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the morning sunlight. Flags</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ripple colours in great jags.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Red blows out, then blue, then green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then all three⁠—a weaving sheen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of prismed patriotism. March</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tommy’s soldiers, stiff and starch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Boldly stepping to the rattle</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the drums, they go to battle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>Tommy lies on his stomach on the floor and directs his columns. He puts his infantry in front, and before them ambles a mounted band. Their instruments make a strand of gold before the scarlet-tunicked soldiers, and they take very long steps on their little green platforms, and from the ranks bursts the song of Tommy’s soldiers marching to battle. The song jolts a little as the green platforms stick on the thick carpet. Tommy wheels his guns round the edge of a box of blocks, and places a squad of cavalry on the commanding eminence of a footstool.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The fire snaps pleasantly, and the old Chinaman nods⁠—nods. The fire makes the red rose in his hand glow and twist. Hist! That is a bold song Tommy’s soldiers sing as they march along to battle.</p>
				<p>Crack! Rattle! The sparks fly up the chimney.</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Tommy’s army’s off to war⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not a soldier knows what for.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he knows about his rifle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How to shoot it, and a trifle</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the proper thing to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When it’s he who is shot through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a cleverly trained flea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He can follow instantly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Orders, and some quick commands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Really make severe demands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On a mind that’s none too rapid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Leaden brains tend to the vapid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But how beautifully dressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is this army! How impressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tommy is when at his heel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All his baggage wagons wheel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">About the patterned carpet, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Moving up his heavy guns</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He sees them glow with diamond suns</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flashing all along each barrel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the gold and blue apparel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of his gunners is a joy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tommy is a lucky boy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Boom! Boom! Ta-ra!</span>
				</p>
				<p>The old mandarin nods under his purple umbrella. The rose in his hand shoots its petals up in thin quills of crimson. Then they collapse and shrivel like red embers. The fire sizzles.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Tommy is galloping his cavalry, two by two, over the floor. They must pass the open terror of the door and gain the enemy encamped under the wash-stand. The mounted band is very grand, playing allegro and leading the infantry on at the double quick. The tassel of the hearth-rug has flung down the bass-drum, and he and his dapple-grey horse lie overtripped, slipped out of line, with the little lead drumsticks glistening to the fire’s shine.</p>
				<p>The fire burns and crackles, and tickles the tripped bass-drum with its sparkles.</p>
				<p>The marching army hitches its little green platforms valiantly, and steadily approaches the door. The overturned bass-drummer, lying on the hearth-rug, melting in the heat, softens and sheds tears. The song jeers at his impotence, and flaunts the glory of the martial and still upstanding, vaunting the deeds it will do. For are not Tommy’s soldiers all bright and new?</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Tommy’s leaden soldiers we,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Glittering with efficiency.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not a button’s out of place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tons and tons of golden lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wind about our officers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Every manly bosom stirs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the thought of killing⁠—killing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tommy’s dearest wish fulfilling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We are gaudy, savage, strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And our loins so ripe we long</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">First to kill, then procreate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Doubling so the laws of Fate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On their women we have sworn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To graft our sons. And overborne</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’ll rear us younger soldiers, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall our race endure and grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Waxing greater in the wombs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Borrowed of them, while damp tombs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rot their men. O Glorious War!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Goad us with your points, Great Star!</span>
				</p>
				<p>The china mandarin on the bookcase nods slowly, forward and back⁠—forward and back⁠—and the red rose writhes and wriggles, thrusting its flaming petals under and over one another like tortured snakes.</p>
				<p>The fire strokes them with its dartles, and purrs at them, and the old man nods.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Tommy does not hear the song. He only sees the beautiful, new, gaily-coloured lead soldiers. They belong to him, and he is very proud and happy. He shouts his orders aloud, and gallops his cavalry past the door to the wash-stand. He creeps over the floor on his hands and knees to one battalion and another, but he sees only the bright colours of his soldiers and the beautiful precision of their gestures. He is a lucky boy to have such fine lead soldiers to enjoy.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Tommy catches his toe in the leg of the wash-stand, and jars the pitcher. He snatches at it with his hands, but it is too late. The pitcher falls, and as it goes, he sees the white water flow over its lip. It slips between his fingers and crashes to the floor. But it is not water which oozes to the door. The stain is glutinous and dark, a spark from the firelight heads it to red. In and out, between the fine, new soldiers, licking over the carpet, squirms the stream of blood, lapping at the little green platforms, and flapping itself against the painted uniforms.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The nodding mandarin moves his head slowly, forward and back. The rose is broken, and where it fell is black blood. The old mandarin leers under his purple umbrella, and nods⁠—forward and back, staring into the air with blue-green eyes. Every time his head comes forward a rosebud pushes between his lips, rushes into full bloom, and drips to the ground with a splashing sound. The pool of black blood grows and grows, with each dropped rose, and spreads out to join the stream from the wash-stand. The beautiful army of lead soldiers steps boldly forward, but the little green platforms are covered in the rising stream of blood.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The nursery fire burns brightly and flings fan-bursts of stars up the chimney, as though a gala flamed a night of victorious wars.</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-painter-on-silk" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Painter on Silk</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There was a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who made his living</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By painting roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon silk.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sat in an upper chamber</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And painted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the noises of the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meant nothing to him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When he heard bugles, and fifes, and drums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought of red, and yellow, and white roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bursting in the sunshine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smiled as he worked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He thought only of roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he could get no more silk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stopped painting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of roses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The day the conquerors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entered the city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay dying.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He heard the bugles and drums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wished he could paint the roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bursting into sound.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-ballad-of-footmen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Ballad of Footmen</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Now what in the name of the sun and the stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the meaning of this most unholy of wars?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do men find life so full of humour and joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That for want of excitement they smash up the toy?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fifteen millions of soldiers with popguns and horses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All bent upon killing, because their “of courses”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are not quite the same. All these men by the ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nine nations of women choking with tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is folly to think that the will of a king</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can force men to make ducks and drakes of a thing</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They value, and life is, at least one supposes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some little interest, even if roses</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Have not grown up between one foot and the other.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What a marvel bureaucracy is, which can smother</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such quite elementary feelings, and tag</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man with a number, and set him to wag</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His legs and his arms at the word of command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the blow of a whistle! He’s certainly damned,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fit only for mince-meat, if a little gold lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an upturned moustache can set him to face</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bullets, and bayonets, and death, and diseases,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because some one he calls his Emperor, pleases.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If each man were to lay down his weapon, and say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a click of his heels, “I wish you Good-day,”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now what, may I ask, could the Emperor do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A king and his minions are really so few.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angry? Oh, of course, a most furious Emperor!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the men are so many they need not mind his temper, or</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dire results which could not be inflicted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With no one to execute sentence, convicted</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Is just the weak wind from an old, broken bellows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What lackeys men are, who might be such fine fellows!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To be killing each other, unmercifully,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At an order, as though one said, “Bring up the tea.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or is it that tasting the blood on their jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They lap at it, drunk with its ferment, and laws</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So patiently builded, are nothing to drinking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More blood, any blood. They don’t notice its stinking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I don’t suppose tigers do, fighting cocks, sparrows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as to men⁠—what are men, when their marrows</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are running with blood they have gulped; it is plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such excellent sport does not recollect pain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Toll the bells in the steeples left standing. Half-mast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags which meant order, for order is past.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Take the dust of the streets and sprinkle your head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The civilization we’ve worked for is dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Squeeze into this archway, the head of the line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has just swung round the corner to ‘Die Wacht am Rhein’.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
